*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 70621 ***







                                  OXFORD
                                 AND THE
                           RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS

                     R. F. SCHOLZ      S. K. HORNBECK

                               HENRY FROWDE
                         OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
                       LONDON, NEW YORK AND TORONTO
                                   1907

                           OXFORD: HORACE HART
                        PRINTER TO THE UNIVERSITY




PREFACE


The primary object of this book is to present, in concise form, a large
variety of facts which have been and are, in one way or another, of value
or importance to those who are interested in the Rhodes Scholarships.

The frequency and the diversity of the inquiries which have been made,
both officially and unofficially, and especially the questions which have
been asked by and of Rhodes Scholars, have suggested the practicability
of an attempt to compile an elementary reference-book which shall contain
answers to many of these queries.

It must be clearly understood at the outset that this volume is _in no
way official_, having been in no way authorized or approved by the Rhodes
Trust or by Oxford University. For the fact of its appearance and for its
form and contents the authors (or, perhaps better, the ‘editors’ of the
material which it contains) must and do assume the sole responsibility.
Yet for the facts which it contains we have had recourse to official or
semi-official publications, and for accuracy we plead the authority of
these sources.

Inquiries have varied from such simple questions as ‘How many Rhodes
Scholars are there in Oxford?’ to, ‘How may a Rhodes Scholarship be
obtained; how does Oxford differ in system from an American University;
what courses of study can I pursue at Oxford?’ It is hoped that the
facts contained in the following chapters will answer a large number of
these questions, and that they may not only save much time and perplexity
for those who are especially interested in the Rhodes Scholarships, but
that they may be of considerable additional use in explaining many points
which are popularly misunderstood or overlooked with regard to the Rhodes
Scholarships and their relation to Oxford.

Our purpose to compile at once a short record and a working handbook
has made our task largely that of selection and arrangement. We have
drawn freely for information upon many sources. Thus, the first chapter
is based almost entirely upon facts set forth in Mr. W. T. Stead’s
_Last Will and Testament of Cecil John Rhodes_; the second chapter is
merely an arrangement from a copy of Rhodes’s Will; the third rests upon
information obtained from Dr. Parkin’s written statements, especially
from an article in the London _Times_ of October 13, 1904, and from an
address before the Royal Colonial Institute (December, 1904), and from
answers which have been given to direct questions; the fourth is based
on published ‘Memoranda’ of the Rhodes Trust; and the sixth represents a
condensation or rearrangement, with some personal comment, of information
from the official publications of the University of Oxford (see also
Bibliography, p. 169). The fifth and the seventh may be said to have more
of the personal colouring, but they, too, represent impressions gained
from various reading and comparison of opinions, as well as of those of
personal experience.

The division into Parts I and II has been determined by the fact that
the first four chapters (Part I) deal largely with matters outside
Oxford, while the remainder (Part II) deals rather with Oxford phases of
the question. In addition to the desire to present general information it
has been our constant purpose to meet the questions—first, of the person
who is considering whether he wishes a Rhodes Scholarship; second, of
the person who is an intending candidate; third, of the elected Rhodes
Scholar.

This motive has prompted the addition of considerable matter in the form
of an Appendix which contains: a List of the Rhodes Scholars up to date;
a List of the Committees of Selection; a set of questions illustrating
the qualifying examination; a list of the members of the Instructional
Staff of the University; a Lecture List illustrating the Oxford ‘Honour
School’ Lectures; a list of Affiliated and Privileged Universities; and
a Bibliography. We have endeavoured by means of a complete Index to make
it possible to find at once the information, so far as herein contained,
which one is seeking.

Although disclaiming all or any official authorization, and wishing to
involve no one in the responsibility for the appearance or the character
of these chapters, we feel that it would be misleading and ungrateful
not to acknowledge our indebtedness to those without whose assistance
much of the information could not have been obtained, or could only
have been obtained with great difficulty. We have occasion to thank,
for very material assistance and for many valuable suggestions, Dr. G.
R. Parkin, Mr. F. J. Wylie, and Mr. H. T. Gerrans. Dr. Parkin and Mr.
Wylie, as officially connected with the Rhodes Trust, have given us
access to Memoranda, and have given information on many points connected
with the Scholarship System. Mr. Gerrans, Fellow of Worcester College,
has explained and furnished information on many difficult points in the
Oxford system, and has otherwise considerably simplified the problem of
arrangement and publication. Our thanks are due also to Mr. L. Cecil Jane
of University College for very helpful suggestions. For whatever errors
or shortcomings may be discovered we alone are responsible.

Readers should also bear in mind that the ‘System’ of the Rhodes
Scholarships is still to some extent in its trial stages, and that
changes in its methods and machinery may still be expected.

Our sole incentive for the production of such a book _at this time_ lies
in a desire to meet what has seemed a present need for a collection of
information upon the Scholarships as they exist. We would only justify
this attempt in so far as it may accomplish this end.

                                                                  R. F. S.
                                                                  S. K. H.

OXFORD, _February, 1907_.




CONTENTS


                                 PART I

  CHAP.                                                               PAGE

     I. SOURCE, ORIGIN, AND PURPOSE                                      1

    II. THE SIXTH AND LAST WILL OF CECIL JOHN RHODES                     8

   III. FROM PROVISION TO PRACTICE, 1902-1906: THE MEASURES AND STEPS
          BY WHICH THE SCHOLARSHIP SYSTEM HAS BEEN ORGANIZED            21

    IV. THE APPOINTMENT: ELIGIBILITY—REQUIREMENTS—QUALIFICATIONS—
          EXAMINATION—METHODS OF SELECTION—METHODS OF PROCEDURE
          AND INSTRUCTION                                               31

                                 PART II

     V. OXFORD AS IT IS—OR AS IT HAS SEEMED TO A RHODES SCHOLAR         44

    VI. THE OXFORD SYSTEM: UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE GOVERNMENT, METHODS
          OF INSTRUCTION, COURSES OF STUDY, AND DEGREES                 61

   VII. EXPENSES                                                        95

  VIII. OPPORTUNITIES: THE VALUE OF A RHODES SCHOLARSHIP—
         QUALIFICATIONS—CHOICE OF A COLLEGE—CHOICE OF WORK—ADVANTAGES  106

                               APPENDICES

     I. LIST OF RHODES SCHOLARS                                        118

    II. LIST OF COMMITTEES OF SELECTION                                128

   III. COPY OF EXAMINATION PAPERS FOR JANUARY, 1907                   136

    IV. LIST OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS AND LECTURERS                    143

     V. LIST OF HONOUR LECTURES, 1906                                  151

    VI. LIST OF AFFILIATED UNIVERSITIES                                168

   VII. LIST OF BOOKS FOR REFERENCE                                    169

                                 TABLES

  1. RHODES SCHOLARS: LIST CONTAINING THE NUMBER OF APPOINTMENTS TO
       JANUARY, 1907                                                    29

  2. COLLEGES OF OXFORD UNIVERSITY                                      60

  3. EXAMINATIONS FOR THE B.A. DEGREE                                   77

  4. EXPENSES                                                     103, 105

  INDEX                                                                171




PART I




CHAPTER I

SOURCE, ORIGIN, AND PURPOSE


Cecil Rhodes left to the world a Will whose provisions have caused more
comment than those of any other Will of modern times. A simple paraphrase
of its chief provision would be ‘I Cecil John Rhodes leave £2,000,000 for
the foundation of between 150 and 200 perpetual scholarships at Oxford
University.’ To stop, however, with such a summary is to know nothing
of the real character of the Will. Aside from being a legal document
disposing of property, the Will is an excellent commentary upon Rhodes’s
life and thought and a record of certain of his conclusions. Its value to
our present subject, however, is rather prospective than retrospective.
Rhodes provided not _only_ the money for the foundation, but a detailed
memorandum of the principles which he wished his Trustees and Executors
to keep in mind in establishing the Rhodes Scholarships.

The first essential, then, to an understanding of the Rhodes Scholarships
is to be familiar with the clauses of the Will which are the foundation
upon which they rest, and which determine the general shape of their
structure.

It may be well, however, and a considerable aid to an understanding of
the Will, to remind ourselves first of a few important incidents in the
life of Rhodes—incidents which go far to explain his motives and methods.

Rhodes entered Oriel College, Oxford, in 1873. A few months later, being
in bad health, he was sent by his physician to South Africa. This forced
trip spelled Opportunity in large letters before him. Keen perception,
ingenuity, and careful application forged the links between opportunity
and wealth. But wealth was not a goal; it became an instrument for the
realization of ideals. Coincident with the success of his business
schemes, and intimately correlated with his practical thinking, was the
development of a personal and political philosophy which shaped his ideas
of the value and proper function of wealth.

Rhodes had not been a brilliant student; but he was a persistent and a
logical thinker. Long before he finished his College course he had set
himself certain problems such as seldom occur to the ordinary man, and
whose solution is rarely attempted even by extraordinary men. What was
most important, he met his problems squarely, carried his thinking to
conclusions, and his conclusions into practice.

Throughout his life he cherished a fond memory of his student days
and a deep reverence for his University. His high respect for Oxford
grew not alone from the happy impressions of early and careless years.
He matriculated when twenty years old. For the next eight years he
alternated between winters spent in South Africa amid the influences of
frontier life, and summers spent in the social and academic atmosphere
of Oxford. When, after eight years, he took his degrees, B.A. and M.A.
together (1881), he was already a successful business man, well on his
way to maturity (_b._ 1853). Thus he had been an Oxford undergraduate
both as a youth and as a man, and had learned the theories and practices
of Oxford side-by-side with the practical experiences of business life
during the impressionable years of early manhood.

During these undergraduate days he had been deeply impressed by a passage
from Aristotle—‘Virtue is the highest activity of the soul living for the
highest object in a perfect life.’ He appreciated Aristotle’s emphasis
upon the necessity for having a high ideal and for struggling toward
that ideal. He revolved in his mind while in Oxford and in Africa, as he
went and came, and during his summers here and his winters there, many
problems as to the end and object of existence. What is the end of the
process of evolution? Is it man? For what end does man exist? Why do I
exist? What does my existence demand of me? Is there a God? If so, what
does he wish man to do? What would he have me do? What can I do best?

He became conscious of a desire for power—effective, creative power, the
power which ‘does things.’ He early decided, and he never changed his
opinion, that the ‘open sesame’ to the realm of power was money. The
opportunity for making money lay before him; the ability and the business
capacity lay within him; money was his. Yet wealth was not his end; he
never made money an end; it was always a means.

His self-interrogation did not cease. He decided that his first great
duty was to his country. What is this duty?—he asked himself. Naturally,
to further her interests. Her interests are?—Those of the British Empire.
And those are?—To advance civilization and the cause of universal peace.
What could he do? He decided that he would ‘paint as much as possible
of the map of South Africa British red’. But patriotism should not be
selfish—nor should it be narrow. He looked beyond the boundaries of
the Empire. ‘What race can do, is doing, and will do most to advance
civilization?’ He answered himself that the Anglo-Saxon race was the race
of the Present and of the Future—the instrument of Destiny. Therefore, he
would devote himself to the ideas which the Anglo-Saxon race represents.

These conclusions were recorded in a ‘draft of some of my ideas’ which
Rhodes put upon paper while in Kimberley, when he was about twenty-four
years of age (1877). He continued with a consideration of how his ideas
might be made effective. His fancy suggested the formation of a kind of
secular church which should have its members in all parts of the Empire,
especially at the Universities, and whose common interest should be the
extension of the Empire. He sketched the kind of men upon whom he could
depend, the method by which they might be recruited, keeping ever in mind
‘the closer union of England and her Colonies’.

[Sidenote: First Will, 1877.]

That same year he wrote a Will in which he directed that all his estates
and effects of every kind should be administered to promote British
rule; to perfect a system of emigration from the United Kingdom to
the Colonies; to further the consolidation of the British Empire; to
assist towards the restoration of Anglo-Saxon unity; towards securing
the representation of the Colonies in Parliament, and the foundation of
a Power so great as to render wars impossible and to promote the best
interests of humanity.

At that early period, then, we find—not the idea of the Rhodes
Scholarships—but the ideas which dominated Rhodes’s subsequent imperial
theories, the soil which was ready to receive the suggestion which seems
later to have come spontaneously, of founding and defining a scholarship
system.

[Sidenote: Second Will, 1882.]

[Sidenote: Third Will, 1888.]

This Will of 1877 was suspended in 1882 by a very informal Will written
on a single sheet of note-paper, and that in turn was revoked and
replaced by a third in 1888.

In 1889 Rhodes met Mr. W. T. Stead, then editor of the _Pall Mall
Gazette_, and the two men discovered a remarkable coincidence in their
ideas, especially on the subjects of an English-speaking reunion and a
society for the promotion of world welfare and peace.[1] Mr. Rhodes set
forth a number of his political ideals at considerable length.

His earlier devotion to the idea of British ascendancy, while not lost,
had become but a part of his larger idea of Anglo-Saxon supremacy. So
unbiased had he become that in 1891 he expressed himself as so desirous
of seeing an English-speaking union that he would be willing that the
English monarchical system and isolated imperial existence be sacrificed,
if necessary, to its achievement.[2]

[Sidenote: Fourth Will, 1891.]

In 1891 he signed his fourth Will, making over his real and personal
property to two persons, one of whom was ‘W. T. Stead of the Review of
Reviews’.

[Sidenote: Fifth Will, 1893.]

The fifth Will was drafted in 1892 and signed by Mr. Rhodes in 1893. The
name of Mr. Hawksley was added as one of the Executors, and joint-heir.
It was understood that Mr. Stead was the ‘custodian of the Rhodesian
ideas’, and the other two Executors were to direct necessary financial
and legal measures.

In January, 1895, Rhodes first announced to Mr. Stead his intention of
founding a number of scholarships. He said that while on the Red Sea in
1893 the thought had struck him of creating a number of scholarships at
a residential English University to be open to various British Colonies.
His proposition at that time was to provide for twelve scholarships
at Oxford each year, each tenable for three years, of a value of £250
per year. A codicil was added to the fifth Will providing for these
scholarships for Canada, the Australian Colonies, including Western
Australia and Tasmania, and for Cape Colony.

A good many things happened in the life of Rhodes between the time he
left England in February, 1895, and the outbreak of the Boer War in 1899.
There was the Johannesburg Raid, for instance; and there were all those
strenuous preliminaries to the war in which Rhodes stood as the champion
of what his imperial school considered the true rights of England.

[Sidenote: Sixth Will, 1899.]

In July, 1899, before the outbreak of the War, Rhodes recast and expanded
the whole scheme of his Will and substituted, for that of 1893, a sixth
document, which became his ‘Last Will and Testament’,[3] wherein he
outlined and provided plans and detailed directions for establishing the
scholarships which are now known as the _Rhodes Scholarships_. Each of
the friends who became a Trustee doubtless had a share in the discussions
and suggestions which gradually shaped and realized the Scholarship
idea. Mr. Stead tried, without success, to persuade Rhodes to divide the
scholarships between Oxford and Cambridge, also to open them to women; he
was successful, however, in his suggestion which resulted in scholarships
being granted to the States and Territories of the United States.

Rhodes rejected all propositions whereby the appointments were to be
based solely upon Competitive Examinations. His own ideas upon this
subject were expressed in the Codicil of October, 1901.[4]

Thus the form realized in the last Will and Testament was not the result
of any hasty resolution to attempt some great innovation in the method of
bequeathing wealth for educational purposes; it was not a philanthropic
caprice; it was not a mere response to suggestions occurring to him
while casting about, as so often happens, for an answer to the question,
‘How shall I leave my money?’ Both the substance and the letter of the
document by which he left £2,000,000 for ‘an educational experiment’ were
the result of living and thinking, suggesting and receiving suggestions,
accepting and rejecting; and, finally, of careful decision. It represents
conclusions; it is characteristic, moreover, of the mind of its author,
combining practical judgement with the promptings of an imperial
imagination; it represents unbroken confidence in the ideals which to him
made life worth living.

Soon after the writing of this Will the Boer War broke out, and the
political concord between Rhodes and Mr. Stead was at an end. Their
friendship, however, continued, and each remained true to the same old
ideal—although their opinions as to British rights in South Africa were
in violent antithesis.

In the original Will Mr. Rhodes left the residue of his real and personal
estate to the Earl of Rosebery, Earl Grey, Alfred Beit, William Thomas
Stead, Lewis Lloyd Mitchell, and Bourchier Francis Hawksley, absolutely
as joint tenants. The same persons were appointed his Executors and
Trustees.

In a Codicil dated January, 1901, Rhodes directed that the name of W. T.
Stead should be removed from the list of his Executors.[5] In October of
the same year he added Lord Milner’s name to the list of Executors and
joint heirs, and in March, 1902, on his death-bed, that of Dr. Jameson.

Before the month was out the great creative imperialist had passed from
the scene of his successes. He died at Muizenberg, near Cape Town, on the
26th of March, 1902, in his forty-ninth year.

In his constructive fancy he had known no ordinary limits. ‘I would
annex the planets if I could.’[6] He had measured by more than the span
of a single life or a few generations; he had built for to-morrow as
well as for to-day. ‘I find I am human, but should like to live after my
death.’[7] He frequently wished ‘that he might return to earth to see
how his ideas were prospering, and what was being done with the fortune
which he had dedicated to the service of posterity’. His Will expresses
in concrete form what were his purposes and what the plans which he left
as a sacred Trust to the care and guardianship of his chosen friends.




CHAPTER II

THE SIXTH AND LAST WILL OF CECIL JOHN RHODES


The Will is arranged in forty-two clauses, followed by four codicils. As
it is the intention here to deal only with those provisions which bear
directly upon the Rhodes Scholarships or Oxford, it would seem natural
to omit all other articles; but, for the sake of giving a comprehensive
view of this remarkable document, it has seemed preferable to follow the
regular order of the clauses, inserting summaries of those which are
irrelevant to our subject.

The quotations in the following pages are made from a copy (in the
Bodleian Library, Oxford) of the full text of the Will as published by
Hollams, Sons, Coward and Hawksley.

Thick Clarendon type has been used to indicate exact quotation of
the text, while the use of ordinary type enclosed in [ ]s indicates
summarizing or abridgement.

The designation of the clauses or articles by Arabic numerals is exactly
as they occur in the text. The Roman numerals have been arbitrarily
inserted to indicate topical divisions.[8]


WILL AND CODICILS OF THE RIGHT HONOURABLE CECIL JOHN RHODES.

  Will dated 1st July, 1899.
    Codicils of January, 1901.
    Codicil of 11th October, 1901.
    Codicil of January 18th, 1902.
    Codicil of 12th March, 1902.

Testator died 26th March, 1902.

                    Hollams, Sons, Coward and Hawksley
                          30, Mincing Lane, E.C.
                                (London).


[THE WILL.]

I the Right Honourable Cecil John Rhodes of Cape Town in the Colony
of the Cape of Good Hope hereby revoke all testamentary dispositions
heretofore made by me and declare this to be my last Will which I make
this 1st day of July 1899.


I.

1. I am a natural-born British subject and I now declare that I have
adopted and acquired and hereby adopt and acquire and intend to retain
Rhodesia as my domicile.

2. I appoint the Right Honourable Archibald Philip Earl of Rosebery K.G.
K.T. the Right Honourable Henry George Earl Grey Alfred Beit[9] (...)
William Thomas Stead[9] (...) Lewis Lloyd Michell[9] (...) and Bourchier
Francis Hawksley[9] (...) to be my Executors and the Trustees of my Will
and they and the survivors of them or other the Trustees for the time
being of my Will and hereinafter my Trustees.

Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11

[give directions and instructions for the burial of Rhodes’s body at
Matoppos in Rhodesia; the disposal of certain small legacies; the
erection of a monument to the men who fell in the first Matabele War
at Shangani in Rhodesia; the disposition of certain properties in
Rhodesia; the disposition of certain moneys to provide for the Matoppos,
the Bulawayo, and the Inyanga ‘Funds’, experimental farming and the
establishment and maintenance of an Agricultural College, and the
management of certain estates.]


II.

[BEQUESTS TO ORIEL COLLEGE, OXFORD.]

12. I give the sum of £100,000 ... to my old college Oriel College in the
University of Oxford ... and I direct that the sum of £40,000 part of the
said sum of £100,000 shall be applied in the first place in the erection
of (the said) new College buildings and that the remainder of such sum of
£40,000 shall be held as a fund by the income whereof the aforesaid loss
to the College[10] revenue shall so far as possible be made good.

And ... I direct that the sum of £40,000 further part of the said sum of
£100,000 shall be held as a fund by the income whereof the income of such
of the resident Fellows of the College as work for the honour and dignity
of the College shall be increased.

And I further direct that the sum of £10,000 ... shall be held as a fund
by the income whereof the dignity and comfort of the High Table[11] may
be maintained by which means the dignity and comfort of the resident
Fellows may be increased.

And I further direct that the sum of £10,000 ... shall be held as a
repair fund the income whereof shall be expended in maintaining and
repairing the College buildings.

[This portion of the Will is concluded with advice to the College
authorities that they consult the Rhodes Trustees as to the investment
and handling of these various funds.]


III.

Articles 13, 14, 15

[provide for the disposition and maintenance of De Groote Schuur,
Rhodes’s South African residence, directing that it be left as a
residence for the Prime Minister for the time being of the Federated
Government of the States of South Africa, and that certain of the
expenses of its maintenance be paid from the income of the estate.]


IV.

[THE SCHOLARSHIPS AT OXFORD.]

16. Whereas I consider that the education of young Colonists at one of
the Universities in the United Kingdom is of great advantage to them for
giving breadth to their views for their instruction in life and manners
and for instilling into their minds the advantage to the Colonies as well
as to the United Kingdom of the retention of the unity of the Empire And
whereas in the case of young Colonists studying at a University in the
United Kingdom I attach very great importance to the University having a
residential system such as is in force at the Universities of Oxford and
Cambridge for without it those students are at the most critical period
of their lives left without any supervision And whereas there are at
the present time 50 or more students from South Africa studying at the
University of Edinburgh many of whom are attracted there by its excellent
medical school and I should like to establish some of the Scholarships
hereinafter mentioned in that University but owing to its not having
such a residential system as aforesaid I feel obliged to refrain from
doing so And whereas my own University the University of Oxford has such
a system and I suggest that it should try and extend its scope so as
if possible to make its medical school at least as good as that at the
University of Edinburgh And whereas I also desire to encourage and foster
an appreciation of the advantages which I implicitly believe will result
from the union of the English-speaking peoples throughout the world and
to encourage in the students from the United States of North America who
will benefit from the American Scholarships to be established for the
reason above given at the University of Oxford under this my Will an
attachment to the country from which they have sprung but without I hope
withdrawing them or their sympathies from the land of their adoption or
birth Now therefore I direct my Trustees as soon as may be after my death
and either simultaneously or gradually as they shall find convenient and
if gradually then in such order as they shall think fit to establish for
male students the scholarships hereinafter directed to be established
each of which shall be of yearly value of £300 and be tenable at any
College in the University of Oxford for three consecutive academical
years.

17. I direct my Trustees to establish certain Scholarships and these
Scholarships I sometimes hereinafter refer to as ‘the Colonial
Scholarships’.

18. The appropriation of the Colonial Scholarships and the numbers to be
annually filled up shall be in accordance with the following table:—

  ---------+-----------------------------------------+--------------
    Total  |                                         |    No. of
     No.   | To be tenable by Students of or from[12]| Scholarships
    appro- |                                         | to be filled
   priated |                                         |   each year
  ---------+-----------------------------------------+--------------
           |                                         |
      9    | Rhodesia                                | 3 and no more
      3    | The South African College School        |
           |   in the Colony of Cape of Good Hope    | 1 and no more
      3    | The Stellenbosch College School         |
           |   in the same Colony                    | 1 and no more
      3    | The Diocesan College School of          |
           |   Rondebosch in the same Colony         | 1 and no more
      3    | St. Andrews College School              |
           |   Grahamstown in the same Colony        | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of Natal                     | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of New South Wales           | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of Victoria                  | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of South Australia           | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of Queensland                | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of Western Australia         | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of Tasmania                  | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony of New Zealand               | 1 and no more
      3    | The Province of Ontario in the          |
           |   Dominion of Canada                    | 1 and no more
      3    | The Province of Quebec in the           |
           |   Dominion of Canada                    | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony or Island of Newfoundland    |
           |   and its Dependencies                  | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony or Islands of the Bermudas   | 1 and no more
      3    | The Colony or Island of Jamaica         | 1 and no more
  ---------+-----------------------------------------+--------------

19. I further direct my Trustees to establish additional Scholarships
sufficient in number for the appropriation in the next following clause
hereof directed and those Scholarships I sometimes hereinafter refer to
as ‘the American Scholarships’.

20. I appropriate two of the American Scholarships to each of the
present States and Territories of the United States of North America
provided that if any of the said Territories shall in my lifetime be
admitted as a State the Scholarships appropriated to such Territory
shall be appropriated to such State and that my Trustees may in their
uncontrolled discretion withhold for such time as they shall think fit
the appropriation of Scholarships to any Territory.

21. I direct that of the two Scholarships appropriated to a State or
Territory not more than one shall be filled up in any year so that at
no time shall more than two Scholarships be held for the same State or
Territory.

22. The Scholarships shall be paid only out of income and in the event
at any time of income being insufficient for payment in full of all
the Scholarships for the time being payable I direct that (without
prejudice to the vested interests of holders for the time being of
Scholarships) the following order of priority shall regulate the payment
of Scholarships.

[Provided that:—

Scholarships shall be paid of (i) students from Rhodesia, (ii) of
students from the South African Stellenbosch, Rondebosch, and St. Andrews
School, (iii) of students from the other British Colonies, (iv) of
students holding the American Scholarships.

Articles 23, 24, 25, which dealt with the qualities of _candidates and
methods of selection_, were replaced by clauses in the Codicil of Oct.
11, 1901. See p. 18.]

26. A qualified student who has been elected as aforesaid shall within
six calendar months after his election or as soon thereafter as he can
be admitted into residence or within such extended time as my Trustees
shall allow commence residence as an undergraduate at some College in the
University of Oxford.

27. The Scholarship shall be payable to him from the time when he shall
commence such residence.

28. I desire that the Scholars holding the Scholarships shall be
distributed amongst the Colleges of the University of Oxford and not
resort in undue numbers to one or more Colleges only.

29. Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained my Trustees may in
their uncontrolled discretion suspend for such time as they shall think
fit or remove any Scholar from his Scholarship.

Article 30

[gives the Trustees authority to _make vary or repeal_ regulations
general or particular with regard to (i) the election of qualified
students and the methods by which qualifications are to be ascertained,
(ii) the tenure of Scholarships, (iii) suspension and removal of
Scholars, (iv) payment of scholarships, (v) the method for giving effect
to clause 28, (vi) any other matter which they may think necessary with
regard to the Scholarships.]

Articles 31, 32

[continue specifications as to the authority of the Trustees.]

33. No regulations made under clause 30 or made and approved of under
clauses 31 and 32 hereof shall be inconsistent with any of the provisions
herein contained.

34. In order that the Scholars past and present may have opportunities of
meeting and discussing their experiences and prospects I desire that my
Trustees shall annually give a dinner to the past and present Scholars
able and willing to attend at which I hope my Trustees or some of them
will be able to be present and to which they will I hope from time to
time invite as guests persons who have shown sympathy with the views
expressed by me in this Will.

Article 35

[leaves the Trustees free to “set apart out of my estate such a
Scholarship fund ... as they shall consider sufficient by its income to
pay the Scholarships and in addition a yearly sum of £1,000”.]

Articles 36, 37

[leave the Trustees free to invest the Scholarship fund as they shall “in
their uncontrolled discretion” see fit.]

Article 38

[provides for the establishment of “further Scholarships”—“for students
of such British Colonies or Dependencies” as the Trustees shall
see fit—such Scholarships to “correspond in all respects with the
Scholarships hereinbefore directed”.]

39. Until the Scholarship fund shall have been set apart as aforesaid
I charge the same and the Scholarships upon the residue of my real and
personal estate.

40. I give the residue of my real and personal estate unto such of them
the said Earl of Rosebery Earl Grey Alfred Beit William Stead Lewis Lloyd
Michell and Bourchier Francis Hawksley as shall be living at my death
absolutely and if more than one as joint tenants.

41. [Trustees may employ a Secretary or Agent to transact all business
required to be done by the Trust.]

42. My intention is that there shall always be at least three Trustees
of my Will so far as it relates to the Scholarship Trusts and therefore
I direct that whenever there shall be less than three Trustees a new
Trustee or new Trustees shall be forthwith appointed.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand the day and year first
above written.

                                              Signed (...) C. J. Rhodes.

(Witnesses)

  Charles T. Metcalfe,
  P. Jourdan,
  Arthur Sawyer.


_CODICILS._


I. ‘Jan. 1900.’ Really Jan., 1901.

(1.) A Codicil added by Rhodes revoking the appointment of Mr. Stead as
one of his executors. (See Clause 2, p. 10.)

(Witnesses)

  Lewis L. Michell.
  H. Godder.

[Sidenote: German Scholarships.]

(2.) This is a further Codicil to my Will. I note the German Emperor
has made instruction in English compulsory in German schools. I leave
five yearly Scholarships at Oxford of £250 per annum to students of
German birth the Scholars to be nominated by the German Emperor for the
time being. Each Scholarship to continue for three years so that each
year after the first three there will be fifteen Scholars. The object
is that an understanding between the three great Powers will render war
impossible and educational relations make the strongest tie.

                                                             C. J. Rhodes.

America has already been provided for. C. J. R.

(Witnesses)

  C. V. Webb.
  W. G. V. Carter.

(3.) [Endorsed on back of above.]

A yearly amount should be put in British Consols to provide for the
bequests in my Will when the Diamond Mine works out; the above is an
instruction to the Trustees of my Will.

                                                                  C. J. R.

(4.) [Provisions for certain Inyange farms.]


II. Oct. 11, 1901.

I appoint the Right Honourable Alfred Lord Milner to be an Executor
and Trustee of my said Will ... in all respects as though he had been
originally appointed (...) I revoke clauses 23, 24 and 25 of my said Will
and in lieu thereof substitute the three following clauses which I direct
shall be read as though originally clauses 23, 24 and 25 of my said Will:—

23. My desire being that the students who shall be elected to the
Scholarships shall not be merely bookworms I direct that in the election
of a student to a Scholarship regard shall be had to:—

(i) his literary and scholastic attainments.

(ii) his fondness for and success in manly outdoor sports such as cricket
football and the like.

(iii) his qualities of manhood truth courage devotion to duty sympathy
for and protection of the weak kindliness unselfishness and fellowship and

(iv) his exhibition during school days of moral force of character and of
instincts to lead and to take an interest in his schoolmates for those
latter attributes will be likely in after life to guide him to esteem the
performance of public duty his highest aim.

As mere suggestions for the guidance of those who will have the choice
of students for the Scholarships I record that (i) my ideal qualified
student would combine these four qualifications in the proportions of
3/10 for the first 2/10 for the second 3/10 for the third and 2/10 for
the fourth qualification[13] so that according to my ideas if the maximum
number of marks for any Scholarship were 200 they would be apportioned as
follows—60 to each of the first and third qualifications and 40 to each
of the second and fourth qualifications. (ii) The marks for the several
qualifications would be awarded independently as follows (that is to say)
the marks for the first qualification by examination for the second and
third qualifications respectively by ballot by the fellow students of the
candidates and for the fourth qualification by the head-master of the
candidate’s school. (iii) The results of the awards (that is to say the
marks obtained by each candidate for each qualification) would be sent
as soon as possible for consideration to the Trustees or to some person
or persons appointed to receive the same and the person or persons so
appointed would ascertain by averaging the marks in blocks of 20 marks
each of all candidates the best ideal qualified students.[14]

24.[15] No student shall be qualified or disqualified for election to a
Scholarship on account of his race or religious opinions.

25.[16] Except in the cases of the four schools hereinbefore mentioned.
[The four South African Colleges. See Clause 18.]

The election to Scholarships shall be by the Trustees after such (if any)
consultation as they shall think fit with the Minister having control of
education in such Colony, Province, State or Territory.

                                              Signed (...) C. J. Rhodes.

Witnesses:

  George Frost.
  Frank Brown.


III. Jan. 18, 1902.

[This codicil deals chiefly with the disposition of various properties
and of the Dalham Hall estate in England.]


IV. Mar. 12, 1902.

I make Dr. Jameson one of the Trustees of my Will with the same rights as
Lord Milner Lord Rosebery Mr. Michell Lord Grey Mr. Beit and Mr. Hawksley.

                                                             C. J. Rhodes.

Witnesses:

  G. J. Krieger.
  A. Helaler.

                   Hollams, Sons, Coward and Hawksley,
                            30, Mincing Lane,
                                   E.C.

[The Trustees at present are as follows:—The Earl of Rosebery, Earl Grey,
Lord Milner, Sir Lewis Lloyd Michell, Bourchier Francis Hawksley, Dr.
Jameson.]




CHAPTER III

FROM PROVISION TO PRACTICE, 1902-1906

THE MEASURES AND STEPS BY WHICH THE SCHOLARSHIP SYSTEM HAS BEEN ORGANIZED


Cecil Rhodes had no idea that his Will was a perfect document. He well
realized the difficulty and the complexity of the problem of organizing
and putting in practice the Scholarship system for which he was
providing; and with clear foresight he made the will elastic, leaving to
his Trustees and their agents the development of details.

He had always in life expressed a rare confidence in the Anglo-Saxon
race. His Will bears witness to the confidence which he placed in
the training capacity of the oldest seat of Anglo-Saxon learning, in
the skill and public spirit of his Trustees, and in the assimilative
capacities of a cosmopolitan group of students of Anglo-Saxon stock whom
he meant to draw together.

The first step for the Trustees was to secure agents who should have
personal supervision of the task of organizing and engineering the
machinery by which Rhodes Scholars should be selected, introduced to
Oxford, and instructed, advised, and guided in the various intricacies of
what, to most of them, would prove an altogether new system. Dr. George
R. Parkin, LL.D., G.M.G., was called from his position as President of
Upper Canada College, Toronto, and accepted and undertook the task of
‘world agent’, so to speak, of the Rhodes Trust. His wide experience in
educational work, his knowledge of Oxford as an Oxford student, and his
intimate knowledge of the parts of the British Empire and of the English
speaking world eminently fitted Dr. Parkin for the position which he
assumed.

Mr. Francis J. Wylie, M. A., a Fellow of Brasenose College, Oxford,
was chosen to fill an executive and diplomatic position as the Oxford
representative of the Trustees, a position which makes him at once the
negotiator between the Trust and the University, and, until the Scholars’
applications for College entrance are adjusted and accepted, between the
Scholars and the University and Colleges.

To Dr. Parkin was entrusted the making of the necessary arrangements with
Oxford, and the construction of a system for selecting and appointing
Scholars. Negotiations with the University and with the Colleges found
all the Colleges willing to accept Rhodes Scholars, although their
requirements varied somewhat. The Trustees found it advisable to require
that only men who showed ability to pass Responsions[17] should be
eligible.

Entrance to an Oxford College is not as simple a matter as entering most
Colleges or Universities in the United States, Germany, the British
Colonies or even other Universities in the United Kingdom.

The handling of an endless variety of questions which would naturally
arise in this connexion, negotiations between the appointed Scholars and
Oxford, and the adjustment of individual difficulties at Oxford became,
as they continue to be, the charge of Mr. Wylie.

Dr. Parkin was then able to set out on what became a
one-hundred-thousand-mile trip to the ‘ends of the earth’, to approach
the authorities in the centres from which Rhodes Scholars were to be
drawn. It was his mission to deal with ever-varying local conditions, and
establish in each centre an appointive system which would at once satisfy
the requirements of the Will, the requirements of the University, and the
circumstances of the local educational (and sometimes political) régimes.
Only through the elasticity of the Will, which gave discretionary powers
to the Trustees, and through which they, in turn, allowed Dr. Parkin to
deal with local conditions, was the success of these negotiations made
possible.

Of this unique trip of organization Dr. Parkin says:—

‘Practically it has brought me in touch with almost every educational
man of weight in the United States and in all our Colonies. In New York
I met the heads of fifteen of the greatest American Universities, and
in Washington the Presidents of the State Universities throughout the
Union assembled in conference. At Boston the Colleges and Schools of
New England were represented. At Chicago nearly sixty heads of Colleges
from the six neighbouring States, representing altogether between
twenty and twenty-five millions of people, had been drawn together by
President Harper. At Atlanta the nine Southern States were represented,
the delegates coming 600 miles southward from Virginia and 500 miles
northward from Louisiana. At Kansas City, Spokane, San Francisco, and
Denver, the representatives of the Far West and the Pacific Coast were
collected. In the Maritime Provinces of Canada, at Montreal, Toronto,
Winnipeg, Regina, and Vancouver, independent conferences were held, as
also in each of the Australian States, in New Zealand, Bermuda, Jamaica
and Newfoundland. In South Africa the consultation was chiefly with
individual schools or the heads of educational departments.’[18]

As may readily be seen from clause 23 of the Will, Rhodes had in mind
a system of selection which is only possible to ‘Schools’ and to some
Colleges which are organized after the manner of the English ‘Public
School’. Obviously this system would be altogether inapplicable in
most parts of the United States and in the newer parts of the British
Empire. Clause 25, however, leaves to the Trustees the right to make such
arrangements and provide such a system as shall be found practicable.

The questions, then, which these conferences had to discuss were: the
extent to which it was possible to adhere to Rhodes’s suggestions;
methods of selection; the committees of selection; eligibility; age
limits; conditions of domicile; and school or collegiate standing which
should govern candidature and appointment.

The results were, broadly speaking, as follows:[19]—

In those Colonies where neither Governor nor Chief Justice is elected or
directly subject to political influence, these officials were asked to
act along with educational men on the Committees of Selection.

In four of the Canadian Provinces and a few States of the United States a
system was agreed upon among the leading Colleges or Universities whereby
they were to nominate Scholars in rotation. (This remains the case only
in Maine, Vermont, and Washington, and these may soon be changed.)

Scholars from Cape Colony were of course chosen from the individual
schools to which Scholarships were assigned.

Whenever the number of Independent Colleges or Universities is large, and
when courses of study vary widely, it was found most practicable to adopt
a plan of open candidature.

Aside from those Committees in which the Governor and Chief Justice were
included, the Committee of Selection were chosen entirely from among
prominent educators. The Presidents of the leading Universities are
chairmen or members of those Committees, and two, four, or six, prominent
University men of their respective States or Provinces are associated
with them. The constitution of Committees in the United States has been
kept purely academic.

In Germany the appointment as provided by the Will lies with the Emperor.

Age limits and preparatory training were absorbing questions. The English
boy ‘comes up’ to Oxford as a rule in his nineteenth or twentieth year,
after from four to seven years in a ‘Public School’ such as Eton, Harrow,
Westminster, Winchester (or from a smaller school with much the same
academic system). The English ‘Public School’ (which is not a Public
School at all, see p. 47) differs widely in character and in curriculum
from the American ‘High School’ or Preparatory School, if we except a
group of academic schools—nearly all in the East—which are modelled on
the English system.

It was therefore a question of prime importance to what extent it
would be necessary, and then how far desirable and advisable, that
the equipment of Rhodes Scholars should approximate to that of their
college-mates-to-be, and in what respects they might advantageously
differ.

It was pointed out in the Conferences:—

That the English ‘Public School’ gives a boy an opportunity to
distinguish himself through its elaborate system of athletics and
scholarship examinations at an earlier age than is usual in Colonial or
American Secondary Schools.

That the American or Colonial student after two or more years of college
or University life at home would be much better fitted to enter Oxford
without handicap than if he went directly from his Secondary School.

That for the sake of understanding the English University from the
American point of view and the American University from the English point
of view, likewise for understanding and comparing other institutions, and
above all for the sake of his later life when he should return to live in
his own country, he ought to have a preliminary experience of University
life in his own country.

That in order to appreciate and make the most of the advantages or
opportunities which his position as a Rhodes Scholar would offer him, and
to avoid the temptations to idleness to which Oxford would expose him
and the variety of temptations which the long Vacation present, and in
order that he might know, and remain in thoughtful and intimate sympathy
with affairs in his own country, it would be greatly to his advantage
to be more mature than the average graduate of the Colonial or American
Secondary School, or than the ordinary Oxford matriculant.

W. T. Harris, United States Commissioner of Education, said in
1902:[20]—‘It would seem best that our candidates for the Rhodes
Scholarships should all have obtained a preparation amounting to that
required for the A.B. degree.’ The consensus of opinion, while not going
to that length, was that at least two years of previous College or
University life should be required, and with few exceptions this was made
the rule.[21]

In cases where a Committee expressly asked leave to appoint from
Secondary Schools, leave was granted. (This privilege has not been made
use of.) Two years’ college requirements were adopted for Canada, for
four of the six Australian States, and for New Zealand.

Three of the four South African schools to which Scholarships were
especially assigned, asked to be allowed to send pupils who had pursued
their work after leaving school for at least two years at the Cape
University.

Queensland, West Australia, Natal, Rhodesia, Newfoundland, Bermuda, and
Jamaica are the only Colonies where two years’ University standing is not
insisted on.[22]

This preliminary work of organization occupied Dr. Parkin, beginning in
the early Fall of 1902, for more than a year. In the Spring of 1903 Mr.
Wylie assumed office in Oxford. In December, 1903, the Trustees issued
Memoranda to the Colonies and to the States, then to the Committees of
Selection; and through them prospective candidates were informed of the
conditions and regulations which they must fulfil.[23]

Seven South Africans and five Germans were appointed to Scholarships in
1903, and, with one exception, these men, the first Rhodes Scholars,
entered Oxford in Michaelmas Term of that year (Oct. 1903).

In March, 1904, Dr. Parkin arrived in New York with a package of
sealed envelopes which contained the examination questions, prepared in
Oxford to be ‘set’ in the United States and Canada for the qualifying
examination. On April 13, the first papers were opened simultaneously at
various appointed centres throughout the two countries. The various sets
of papers were opened successively in the presence of the supervising
examiners as the hours of each examination arrived, during that day and
the next. In the United States 236 candidates took the examination, and
in Canada 7. When papers were finished the supervising examiners sealed
them, and the whole number were sent to Oxford, there to be read and
passed upon.

Of 242 who took this first examination 126 satisfied the examiners.

The names of those who ‘passed’ were reported to their Committees. From
these lists the Committees then made their selection. When more than one
candidate was eligible, the choice was to be based as far as possible
upon Rhodes’s suggestions as laid down in clause 23 of the Will.[24]

In 1904, 48 scholars were selected from lists of candidates who had
passed the examination; 19 Colonial scholars were chosen without
examination; five Germans were also appointed.

The appointees were instructed to enter into negotiations with Oxford
Colleges, through Mr. Wylie, at once.

Candidates were, and are, of course, allowed a choice in the matter of
Colleges (students can only enter the University through a College), and
this is a matter of considerable importance.[25] Owing to the lateness
of certain appointments, and owing to the difficulty experienced in some
quarters in getting sufficient information on the requirements and on the
characteristics of different Colleges, there was some confusion, a good
deal of puzzling, and numerous cases of almost random choosing in the
expression of preference for this or that College, and in the acceptance
of applications by the Colleges.

In October, 1904, the first large group of Rhodes Scholars, 72 in
number, was matriculated at Oxford. The two questions which most vexed
the Rhodes Scholars and the College and University authorities in that
year were that of ‘standing’ and that of ‘choosing a course’, and these
questions, while being simplified and made easier of settlement, will
remain as problems which will confront the majority of foreign students
who enter Oxford, especially Americans.[26]

In October, 1905, 67 more Rhodes Scholars arrived, followed in October,
1906, by 28 more, there being for 1906 no appointments in the United
States. In the interval eighteen have ‘gone down’[27] and two have died.

The system of appointment, including Methods, Committees,
and Regulations, has required some alteration and constant
supervision—matters that occupy Dr. Parkin’s attention. At Oxford,
personal negotiation, introduction, the adjustment of ever-rising
individual questions, consultations, suggestion and advice when sought,
and—by no means least—the issuing of quarterly cheques, are the
_technical_ functions of Mr. Wylie’s office.

Such, in brief, have been the successive steps by which the machinery
has been set up and put in motion for realizing the elementary stages
of the Rhodes Scholarship Scheme. By these means Rhodes Scholars have
entered—and some have already left—Oxford. At present (January, 1907)
there are in residence on the banks of the Isis 158 students who, in the
words of the late Dr. Monro of Oriel, ‘benefiting by the munificence of
Cecil Rhodes, now come from distant colonies and from nations joined to
us by the tie of culture and of scholarship.’

The Rhodes Scholar enters Oxford, not as a ‘Scholar’, but as a
‘Commoner’[28]; his relations and responsibilities to the University
are those of the ordinary undergraduate. He has served his time as a
‘curiosity’, the Chancellor has welcomed him, the Proctor has declared
his approval of his presence, the Examiners have been ‘satisfied’, and
the University has conferred degrees upon some of his number. His ‘Rhodes
Scholarship’ is ceasing to be emphasized, and it is understood that it is
his business and his purpose to live the life, so far as is compatible
with his individual tastes, his character, and his principles, of the
ordinary Oxford student.


RHODES SCHOLARS

A LIST CONTAINING THE NUMBER OF APPOINTMENTS, ETC., TO DATE.

  +--------------+------------+---------------+---------+-----+-----+-----+
  |              |   No. of   |No. of Scholars|   No.   |1904.|1905.|1906.|
  |              |Scholarships| allowed to be |appointed|     |     |     |
  |              |  open per  |in residence at|in 1903. |     |     |     |
  |              |   year.    |   one time.   |         |     |     |     |
  +--------------+------------+---------------+---------+-----+-----+-----+
  |Canada        |     8      |     24        |  [29]   |9[30]|  7  |  8  |
  |Newfoundland  |     1      |      3        |         |  1  |  1  |  1  |
  |Jamaica       |     1      |      3        |         |  1  |  1  |  1  |
  |Bermuda       |     1      |      3        |         |  1  |  1  |  1  |
  |Australasia   |            |               |         |     |     |     |
  |  (including  |            |               |         |     |     |     |
  |  New Zealand)|     7      |     21        |         |  7  |  7  |  7  |
  |South Africa  |     8      |     24        |    7    |  5  |  7  |  5  |
  |United States |    48[31]  |     96[31]    |         | 43  | 38  |     |
  |Germany       |     5      |     15        |    5    |  5  |  5  |  5  |
  |                                           +---------+-----+-----+-----+
  |Total number appointed each year           |   12    | 72  | 67  | 28  |
  +------------------------------------------------------------------------

  +--------------+------+-----+---------+--------------+
  |              |Total | No. |   No.   |  No. now in  |
  |              |number|gone |deceased.|  residence   |
  |              |  to  |down.|         |  in Oxford,  |
  |              |date. |     |         |January, 1907.|
  +--------------+------+-----+---------+--------------+
  |Canada        |  24  |     |         |      24      |
  |Newfoundland  |   3  |     |         |       3      |
  |Jamaica       |   3  |     |         |       3      |
  |Bermuda       |   3  |     |         |       3      |
  |Australasia   |      |     |         |              |
  |  (including  |      |     |         |              |
  |  New Zealand)|  21  |     |         |      21      |
  |South Africa  |  24  |  8  |         |      16      |
  |United States |  81  |  2  |    2    |      77      |
  |Germany       |  20  |  9  |         |      11      |
  |              +------+-----+---------+              |
  |Total number  |      |               |              |
  | appointed    |      |               |              |
  | to date      | 179  |               |              |
  |Total number  |      |               |              |
  | gone down or |      |               |              |
  | deceased     |      |     21        +--------------+
  |Total number now in residence        |     158      |
  +-------------------------------------+--------------+

In 1904

    Arizona, Florida, Mississippi, Nevada, and New Mexico did not
    send scholars.

    South Africa sent two less than its full number; Canada one
    more, by special leave.

In 1905

    Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, North
    Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, and Wyoming did not send scholars.

    Canada sent one less than its full number.

In 1906

    The United States was not entitled to appointments.

    South Africa sent two less than its full number.




CHAPTER IV

THE APPOINTMENT

ELIGIBILITY, REQUIREMENTS, QUALIFICATIONS, EXAMINATION, METHODS OF
SELECTION, METHODS OF PROCEDURE AND INSTRUCTION


The Rhodes Trust now issues Memoranda which deal with the regulations and
instructions which govern the eligibility and selection of candidates
in their respective centres. Information may be had from the Local
Committees.[32] A brief condensation of these regulations as they appear
at present will answer most of the technical questions which may present
themselves to a prospective candidate.


Eligibility.

Candidates _must_ be _subjects_ of those countries which they represent,
i. e. Colonials—British subjects; Americans—citizens of the United
States; Germans—German subjects.

Candidates must be unmarried.

Candidates must have passed their nineteenth birthday (except: West
Australia—seventeenth, Queensland, Jamaica, and Newfoundland—eighteenth);
but must not have passed their twenty-fifth (Newfoundland—twenty-first,
South Africa—twenty-fourth) by October 1st of the year for which they are
elected.

Candidates, _except those who are exempted by the Colonial Universities
Statute or by special regulations (see, for various States, Provinces,
and Colonies, below)_, shall pass the ‘Responsions’ examination of the
University of Oxford or its equivalent before becoming eligible for
election.[33]

_This examination is in no way competitive._ It is merely a _qualifying
test_ to guarantee a degree of scholarship which will allow a student to
take up a course at Oxford.


The Examination.

[Sidenote: Papers.]

At the request of the Trustees, the University of Oxford named in 1904
and 1905 a Board of Examiners to prepare and handle papers for this
special examination. The same method will be adopted in 1907, and
probably with little change henceforth. Papers are arranged in Oxford,
printed, enclosed in sealed packages, and sent to the Chairman of each
Committee of Selection. These packages are opened by the supervising
examiner at the time and place announced for the examination and in the
presence of the candidates.

[Sidenote: Time and place.]

This examination will be held each year (except in the case of American,
German, and South African scholarships, as noted above on p. 24) in each
State or Territory, Province and Colony, not later than the month of
January, at suitable centres fixed upon by the respective Committees of
Selection. The Committees will appoint suitable persons to supervise the
examination and ensure its impartial conduct.

Stationery will be supplied. The packets of papers when opened will be
found to contain the examination questions, time tables, the printed text
of classical passages, &c., which are set in questions. Therefore _no
textbooks will be required_.

The subjects and books assigned may vary slightly from year to year. The
requirements, however, are as follows:[34]—

=1.= =Arithmetic=—the whole.

=2.= _Either_, =The Elements of Algebra=—Addition, Subtraction,
Multiplication, Division, Greatest Common Measure, Least Common Multiple,
Fractions, Extraction of Square Root, Simple Equations containing one or
two unknown quantities, and problems producing such equations;

_Or_, =The Elements of Geometry=.

Elementary questions, including propositions enunciated by Euclid, and
easy deductions therefrom, will be set on the subject-matter contained in
the following portions of Euclid’s Elements, viz.:—

Book I. The whole, excluding propositions 7, 16, 17, 21.

Book II. The whole, excluding proposition 8.

Book III. The whole, excluding propositions 2, 4-10, 13, 23, 24, 26-29.

Any method of proof will be accepted which shows clearness and accuracy
in geometrical reasoning. So far as possible, candidates should aim at
making the proof of any proposition complete in itself. In the case of
propositions 1-7, 9, 10 of Book II, algebraical proofs will be allowed.

The American student especially should note that _arithmetic_ includes
_circulating decimals_ and _English money_.

=3.= =Greek= _and_ =Latin Grammar=.

=4.= =Translation from English into Latin Prose.=

=5.= _One_ =Greek= _and one_ =Latin book=.

Any of the following portions of the under-mentioned authors will be
accepted as a ‘book’:—

Demosthenes: _De Corona_.

Euripides (any two of the following Plays: _Hecuba_, _Medea_, _Alcestis_,
_Bacchae_).

Homer: (1) _Iliad_, 1-5 or 2-6; _or_ (2) _Odyssey_, 1-5, 2-6.

Plato: _Apology_ and _Crito_.

Sophocles: _Antigone_ and _Ajax_.

Xenophon: _Anabasis_, 1-4 or 2-5.

Caesar: _De Bello Gallico_, 1-4.

Cicero: (1) _Philippics_, 1, 2; _or_ (2) _In Catilinam_, 1-3, and _In
Verrem Actio_ I; _or_ (3) _Pro Murena_ and _Pro Lege Manilia_; _or_ (4)
_De Senectute_ and _De Amicitia_.

Horace: (1) _Odes_, 1-5; _or_ (2) _Satires_; _or_ (3) _Epistles_.

Livy: Books 5 and 6.

Virgil: (1) the _Bucolics_, with Books 1-3 of the _Aeneid_; _or_ (2) the
_Georgics_; _or_ (3) the _Aeneid_, Books 1-5 or 2-6.

Candidates, in preparation, may save time by noticing that _one_ Greek
and _one_ Latin book _only_ are required. Translations _only_ are
required; no questions being asked on the context or the grammar of the
passages in the set Books. _Greek and Latin Grammar and Latin Prose
should be given special attention_ for the separate papers set on those
subjects.[35]

[Sidenote: Texts.]

The Texts used are the Oxford Classical Texts (so far as published).

[Sidenote: Examination Papers.]

The papers written by candidates will be collected at the end of each
examination, sealed, and sent to Oxford, where they will be examined. The
names of those candidates who have satisfied the examiners will then be
listed and sent to their respective Committees, and from these and the
names of candidates who have otherwise qualified the Committee will make
a selection. A certificate of having passed Responsions or of exemption
from Responsions holds good permanently, so that a person once having
obtained such certificates need not take the examination again in order
to qualify as a candidate, and no holder of such certificate will be
required to take Responsions upon entering the University of Oxford.

[Sidenote: Selection.]

Any questions of doubtful eligibility are to be settled by the local
Committee of Selection.

The appointment shall be made each year; not later than the first of
March in Australia and New Zealand; not later than the end of March in
the other States, Territories, Provinces, and Colonies. The Scholar
elected will begin residence in Oxford in October of the year in which he
is elected.


LOCAL QUALIFICATIONS.


Australasia.

The Universities of Sydney (New South Wales), Melbourne (Victoria),
Adelaide (South Australia), and Tasmania have applied for and been
admitted to the privileges of the Colonial Universities’ Statute[36], so
that candidates coming from these Universities who have fulfilled the
stated conditions are accepted as candidates for Rhodes Scholarships
without further examination.

=New South Wales.= Candidates shall be undergraduates or graduates of the
University of Sydney.

Candidates shall have resided in New South Wales for an aggregate period
of four years during the five years immediately preceding the date of
election.

=Queensland.= Candidates shall have passed their eighteenth birthday,
upper limit (25) remaining the same. No candidate shall be eligible
for election who has been at a University for more than three years.
No person who has taken advantage of a Queensland Exhibition shall
be eligible for selection unless he consent to resign the Queensland
Exhibition on election to a Rhodes Scholarship.

Every candidate shall have attended a Secondary School or Schools in
Queensland continuously for three years, or his parents shall for the
period of five years immediately preceding his application have been
resident in Queensland.

=South Australia.= Candidates shall have lived in South Australia for an
aggregate period of four years during the six years immediately preceding
the date of their election.

=West Australia.= Candidates shall have passed their seventeenth
birthday, the upper limit (25) remaining the same.

Candidates shall have been educated in a recognized School or Schools in
West Australia for at least three years immediately before the election.

=Victoria.= Candidates must have been resident for at least seven years
in the Commonwealth of Australia or its dependencies, in New Zealand or
in Fiji, and for the three years immediately preceding the election must
have been resident in Victoria.

=Tasmania.= Candidates must have passed the first and second annual
examinations for any Bachelor’s Degree in the University of Tasmania.

Candidates must have been resident in Tasmania for five years prior to
being awarded Scholarships.[37]


Bermuda.

A candidate must be a natural-born British subject who was born in
Bermuda, or one of whose parents has been domiciled and resident in
Bermuda, for at least five years immediately preceding January 1st in the
year of selection, or in the event of his parents being dead, one of them
must have been domiciled and resident in Bermuda for at least five years
immediately prior to his or her death.

A candidate must have been educated in Bermuda for at least five years
between the ages of twelve and twenty years.

A candidate who has attended a Colonial University affiliated to Oxford
is exempted from Responsions.


Canada.

An elected Scholar must have reached at least the end of his sophomore
or second year’s work at some recognized degree-granting University or
College of Canada.

Candidates may elect whether they will apply for the Scholarship of the
Province in which they have acquired any considerable part of their
educational qualification, or for that of the Province in which they have
their ordinary private domicile, home or residence. They must be prepared
to present themselves for examination or election in the Province they
select. No candidate may compete in more than one Province, either in the
same or successive years.

The following Canadian Universities have applied for and been admitted to
the privileges of the Colonial Universities’ Statute, so that candidates
coming from these Universities who have fulfilled the conditions
are accepted as candidates for Rhodes Scholarships without further
examination:—

  McGill University            Montreal.
  Laval University             Quebec.
  Toronto University           Toronto.
  Queen’s University           Kingston.
  Dalhousie University         Halifax, Nova Scotia.
  King’s College University    Windsor, Nova Scotia.
  Acadia University            Wolfville, Nova Scotia.
  University of New Brunswick  Fredericton, New Brunswick.
  Mount Alison University      Sackville, New Brunswick.
  Manitoba University          Winnipeg, Manitoba.[38]


Jamaica.

Candidates must have passed their eighteenth birthday, the upper limit
(25) remaining the same.

The parents or recognized guardians of candidates must be actually
domiciled in Jamaica, such domicile to include at least seven years of
residence in Jamaica immediately preceding the election. In cases where,
during the seven years’ period, the parent or guardian has taken short
holiday trips off the island, such absence shall not be counted.

Candidates must have passed at least five years of their life in Jamaica.
If educated partially abroad, candidates must not have left Jamaica to
commence such part of their education before the age of eleven years,
their preliminary education having been secured in Jamaica.

Every third year the selection of the Rhodes Scholars will be made from
the candidates who have lived in Jamaica for the whole of the seven years
preceding the date of examination. In case of such candidate having been
off the island for the benefit of his health during this period, the
Committee of Selection may decide, if they think fit, that this does not
interfere with his eligibility. (Candidates who have attended a Colonial
University affiliated to Oxford are exempted from Responsions if they
fulfil the conditions of the Statute.) The qualifying examination will be
held in the city of Kingston each year.


Newfoundland.

Candidates must have passed their eighteenth birthday, but must not have
passed their twenty-first birthday, on the first of October of the year
for which they are elected.

Candidates or their parents must have resided in the Colony for the five
years immediately preceding the examination.

Candidates must have been regular attendant pupils or teachers _in one
of the public schools of the Colony for the three scholastic years
immediately previous to the examination_, provided that in alternate
years, beginning in 1905, candidates who have received their education
elsewhere subsequent to their fifteenth birthday, and who are otherwise
qualified, shall be eligible.

The qualifying examination shall be held in the city of St. John’s each
year.


New Zealand.

Candidates must be either graduates of the University of New Zealand or
undergraduates of that University. They must have been for five years
immediately preceding the year of election domiciled in the Colony, and
must have been educated in the Colony four of such years.

The University of New Zealand has applied for and has been admitted to
the privileges of the Colonial Universities’ Statute, so that candidates
coming from that University who have fulfilled the stated conditions
are accepted as candidates for Rhodes Scholarships without further
examination.

The qualifying examination will be held in the city of Kingston each year.


South Africa.

Candidates must have passed their eighteenth, but not have passed their
twenty-fourth birthday on October 1 of the year for which they are
elected.[39]

=Natal.= (Additional Qualifications.) In Natal candidates are required
(1) to have been educated at a School or Schools in the Colony of Natal
for six years previous to the date of election, or (2) to have their
legal domicile in Natal for six years, though acquiring their education
or any part of it in other Colonies of South Africa. The Committee of
Selection is free to make allowance at its discretion for temporary
absences from the Colony or from South Africa during the six years
referred to.

The Trustees desire to have assurances of full preparation up to the
Oxford standard of Responsions of all Scholars elected by the four
College Schools to which Scholarships are assigned in Cape Colony.

To this end permission has been given to these Schools to allow their
elected Scholars, before taking up the Scholarship at Oxford, to pursue
their studies, for a limited time after leaving school, at the higher
institutions of the Colony.

In view of existing educational conditions, leave is occasionally given
at present by the Trustees for candidates for the Scholarships assigned
to Rhodesia who are being educated in other parts of Africa or in England
to compete, provided that their parents reside in or are intimately
connected with the Colony. In these instances the candidate is allowed
to take Responsions or its equivalent either in England or in the Colony
where he is receiving his education. Application for leave to compete
under these conditions must be made to the Trustees directly or through
the Director of Education for Rhodesia. Other things being equal,
preference will be given to candidates educated in Rhodesia.


The United States of America.

An elected scholar shall have reached, before going into residence, at
the least the end of his sophomore or second-year work at some recognized
degree-granting University or College of the United States. An exception
to this rule is made in the case of the State of Massachusetts, where, at
the request of the Committee of Selection, authority is given to appoint
from the Secondary Schools.

Candidates may elect whether they will apply for the Scholarship of the
State or Territory in which they have acquired any large part of their
educational qualification, or for that of the State or Territory in which
they have their ordinary private domicile, home or residence. They may
pass the qualifying examination at any centre, but they must be prepared
to present themselves before election to the Committee of Selection in
the State or Territory they select.

No candidate may compete in more than one State or Territory either in
the same year or in successive years.


Selection.[40]

In accordance with the wish of Mr. Rhodes, the Trustees desire that[41]
‘in the selection of a student to a Scholarship regard shall be had to
(i) his literary and scholastic attainments; (ii) his fondness for and
success in manly outdoor sports, such as cricket, football, and the
like; (iii) his qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty,
sympathy for and protection of the weak, kindliness, unselfishness and
fellowship; and (iv) his exhibition, during school days, of moral force
of character and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in his
schoolmates’. Mr. Rhodes suggested that (ii) and (iii) should be decided
in any School or College by votes of fellow students, and (iv) by the
Head of the School or College.

Where circumstances render it impracticable to carry out the letter of
these suggestions, the Trustees hope that every effort will be made to
give effect to their spirit, but desire it to be understood that the
final decision must rest with the Committee of Selection.

As a separate memorandum is prepared for each of several groups into
which the scholarship system has been divided, it is impossible to
reproduce here all the details of each. The following clauses are taken
from the _Memorandum issued for the United States_:—

To aid in making a choice each qualified Candidate should be required to
furnish to the Chairman of the Committee of Selection:—

(_a_) A Certificate of age (showing that he is within the eligible limits
of age).

(_b_) A full statement of his educational career at School and College,
his record in athletics, and such testimonials from his masters at School
and his professors at College, in reference to the qualities indicated by
Mr. Rhodes, as will assist the judgement of the Committee of Selection.

(_c_) In cases where more than one Candidate from a single School or
College or University has qualified, the School, College, or University
should be required to select (in accordance with the views of Mr. Rhodes)
its chosen representative to go before the Committee of Selection for
final choice, and a Certificate that he has been so chosen shall be sent
to the Chairman of the Committee of Selection.

Each _Candidate should personally present himself to the Committee_ of
Selection before a final decision is made, _unless specially excused by
the Committee itself_, in which case a statement of the reasons should be
sent to the Trustees.

If a careful comparison of these records and personal interviews with
the Candidates do not furnish sufficient grounds for making a decision,
the Committee of Selection is free to apply to the Candidates, or to any
selected number of them, such further intellectual or other tests as they
may consider necessary (for purposes of comparison).

The _Chairman of the Committee of Selection_ should at once notify to
the Trustees and to Mr. F. J. Wylie, The Rhodes Trust, Oxford, the
name of the elected Scholar, and should forward to the latter all the
records, credentials, and testimonials relating to the Scholar on which
the election was made. These papers should be transmitted _immediately_,
as they are used in consulting College authorities in regard to the
admission of Scholars. It has been the experience of the past two years
that Scholars have frequently been unable to gain admission to any of the
Colleges of their preference owing to remissness in forwarding to Mr.
Wylie the necessary information.

The following ‘Instructions’, issued to Scholars elected for the year
1905, indicate the course of procedure by which a Scholar is entered at
Oxford:—

‘1. In order to be admitted to the University of Oxford, it is necessary
to be first accepted as a member of one of the Colleges which compose the
University.

Election to a Rhodes Scholarship does not of itself admit to a
College.[42] Every College has its own standard for admission, for Rhodes
Scholars as for all other applicants, and accepts or rejects at its own
discretion. Moreover, the number of Rhodes Scholars which any one College
will admit is strictly limited. Few Colleges will admit more than five
in any one year; and in the majority of cases four is the maximum. From
the different candidates for admission a College will select those whose
records suggest that they are most likely to do credit to the College
to which they may belong. It is therefore essential that, in applying
for admission to a College, a Scholar should submit the fullest possible
evidence as to his personal character and academic record.

‘2. The procedure for a Scholar-elect should be as follows:—

(1) _Immediately_ on receiving notice of his election he should write to
the Oxford Secretary to the Rhodes Trustees, Mr. F. J. Wylie, The Rhodes
Trust, Oxford, stating in order the Colleges which he prefers.

(2) He should satisfy himself that the credentials which he submitted to
the Committee of Selection have been forwarded by the Chairman to Mr.
Wylie.

(3) He should himself forward _to Mr. Wylie_ any portion of the following
information which may not have been included in the documents submitted
to the Committee of Selection:—

(_a_) A Certificate of age;

(_b_) Testimonials as to character;

(_c_) Certified evidence as to the Courses of Study pursued by the
Scholar at his University, and as to the gradings attained to by him in
those Courses. This evidence should be signed by the Registrar, or other
responsible official, of his University;

(_d_) A Catalogue of his University;

(_e_) Evidence as to the general tastes and pursuits of the Scholar
outside his Academic Course;

(_f_) Information as to the intentions of the Scholar in regard to the
line of study he proposes to follow at Oxford.

It is also desirable that the Scholar should state to what religious
denomination he belongs.

_All this material must reach Mr. Wylie_ by the beginning of the Summer
Term—that is, _by the middle of April at the latest_.

‘3. When Mr. Wylie has the necessary information in his hands he will
attempt to secure for each Scholar admission to the College of his
preference. That will not be always possible. When a Scholar fails
to gain admission to the College which stands first on his list of
preferences, Mr. Wylie will enter into negotiation with the College
second on that list, and so on.

Where he is specially requested to do so, Mr. Wylie is prepared to select
a College for a Scholar, but it is greatly to be preferred that each
Scholar should, so far as possible, choose for himself.’

[Sidenote: Payment of the Scholarship.]

The Scholarship will be paid quarterly. The first payment (£75) will be
made in the course of the first week of the Michaelmas Term (October). No
request for any earlier payment can be considered.

After a Scholar has been once accepted by a College he should conduct
all further correspondence as to residence, studies, &c., directly with
the College in question.[43] A Scholar must arrive in Oxford not later
than the day on which his College assembles; and it will in most cases be
advantageous to arrive a few days earlier.




PART II




CHAPTER V

OXFORD AS IT IS

OR AS IT HAS SEEMED TO A RHODES SCHOLAR


[Sidenote: Difficulty of describing Oxford.]

What manner of place is Oxford? Every one knows Oxford; and yet, how
little is Oxford understood—even by those who enjoy a period of residence
within its gates! Tourists come for a day or a week, ask numerous
questions, consult a guide or a book, see a few buildings and a picture
postcard, and are ready to tell ‘all about Oxford’. Yet the longer one
stays in Oxford the more one hesitates to attempt description.

The University has its ‘Statutes’, its ‘Handbook’, its ‘Calendar’, its
‘Examination Statutes’, its ‘Programmes’ and ‘Lecture Lists’, which
contain the official information which an American inquirer expects to
find in his University ‘Catalogues’, ‘Bulletins’, and ‘College Annuals’.
Then there are numberless books which deal with various phases of Oxford
life, some of them serious, some merely impressionist sketches. But no
one book professes to give a really comprehensive description of Oxford
or to touch on all its phases; few persons have time or opportunity or
inclination to read all; and still fewer, after reading of Oxford or
living in Oxford, or doing both, agree in their impressions of what
Oxford _really_ is.

Oxford changes slowly, very slowly—and yet what one writes of Oxford
to-day may seem inaccurate to his readers to-morrow; Oxford mills grind
exceeding fine, yet what one person thinks wheat may seem to another
chaff. It depends on the point of view. This is where the difficulty
lies, and herein one feels his presumption when trying to make Oxford
real and comprehensible to the uninitiated.

[Sidenote: Two ideas: the abstract and the concrete.]

Really ‘Oxford’ means two things—it is the name of a place, and it
represents an idea. Bonaparte said of himself that he was ‘not a man but
an event’, and yet he was both. The word ‘Napoleon’ represents to us
a _man_ and an _idea_. The difficulty is to differentiate, to say how
far the concrete and the abstract may be separated, and how far each
is necessary to the proper understanding of the other. The technical
purpose for which these chapters are intended suggests that this attempt
to outline certain salient features of Oxford custom and practice shall
be limited to the concrete, avoiding as far as possible the ideal side,
especially where bordering on the lines of controversy.

[Sidenote: Oxford. Unique character.]

Oxford is unique among Universities. Only Cambridge approximates to it in
character and in system. No other English or Continental University is
like these two. It is from its manner of life and from its environment
that Oxford has acquired and maintained its individuality. The University
has a history which by tradition antedates the Conquest; it has grown
with England; its rights, its charters, its laws have undergone the
vicissitudes of centuries and have developed in the same process of
evolution with the charters and laws and Constitution of England.
The Colleges have been intimately associated with the great events,
constitutional, political, religious, and social, which have made English
history; and the University has fought for and won its rights side by
side with other English institutions.

[Sidenote: National position.]

As it exists to-day the University is ‘sovereign’ within its own borders,
subject to the National Government only in regard to those greater
obligations, such as an individual State in the United States owes to the
National Government.

Oxford and Cambridge are not National or State Universities in the
sense in which that term is applied to many Continental and American
Universities. The English Government makes _no appropriation_ for their
support. And yet they are—and they only—in character the great national
Universities of England.

[Sidenote: The University a federation.]

Visitors from abroad come to Oxford, are shown about through College
after College, and after many expressions of surprise and delight
exclaim, ‘Yes, yes; excellent, excellent, but where is the University?’
They are looking for the ‘main building’, the ‘administration building’,
something concrete which they may call the University—and they do not
find it.

The University is a federation—an academic United States, made up of
twenty-two ‘societies’—the Colleges—each of which has its separate
corporate existence.

[Sidenote: Revenues.]

The University is dependent for its running expenses on its endowments,
fees, and the _pro rata_ contributions from each of the Colleges. The
Colleges are also supported by their endowments, which, usually in
land, are considerable and yet decidedly variable, and also by College
fees as paid by undergraduates. The University is not as rich in income
as credited, and its yearly revenues are really insufficient for the
enormous work which it undertakes.[44]

[Sidenote: Expense.]

There are a number of reasons why the cost of living at Oxford is high.
The University, as explained, consists of a large number of separate
establishments—the Colleges. Students are ‘up’ but one half of the year,
and yet the College ‘establishment’ must be maintained the year round. A
large number of servants are necessary to the system, which in respect
to style of living and service resembles hotel life. The standard of
maintenance and service demanded by the students themselves is not
conducive to economy.

[Sidenote: The student body.]

It is somewhat misleading to characterize Oxford and Cambridge as ‘rich
men’s Universities’. The phrase is probably more appropriate to them
than it is to any other English-speaking educational institutions; yet
‘wealth’ is not the key to entrance or to success in Oxford. So far as
technical restrictions are concerned, the University is open ‘without
respect of birth, age, or creed to all persons who satisfy the appointed
officers that they are likely to derive educational advantage from its
membership’.[45]

In practice a considerable amount of ready cash is necessary for every
one who wishes to enjoy the advantages of Oxford College life.[46] The
sons of aristocratic and of well-to-do families in England, if destined
for University careers, are nearly all sent to Oxford or to Cambridge,
and the student bodies are recruited largely from these sources. It is
asserted that Oxford draws a large proportion of its students from some
twenty ‘Public Schools’. The boys who go through these ‘Schools’ have had
most of their education away from home since their ninth or tenth years.
The cost of living in an English ‘Public School’ is as great as, or
greater than, that of educating a boy in an American Private Preparatory
School or ‘Military Academy’. Men who have been in these Schools usually
come up to Oxford with a generous allowance.

But there are also in Oxford a large number of men whose means are
comparatively limited. There is no such thing as ‘working one’s way’
in Oxford, and practically the only way in which one’s allowance may
be supplemented is through the winning of a scholarship. The type of
student who under Western conditions in America not infrequently ‘starts
his College career on nothing and graduates with a bank account’ is
impossible in Oxford. Again, while it is true that many men in Oxford
consider themselves ‘absolutely poor’ on a sum which will keep a man
in most Universities altogether comfortably, yet for all purposes of
comparison there is an inconsiderable proportion of poor men in the
University.

Oxford life _is_ expensive—in many respects it _seems too_ expensive.
A high minimum allowance[46] is necessary to the student, just as some
knowledge of Latin and Greek is necessary for passing Responsions; but it
is as misleading to characterize the whole institution as a ‘rich man’s
University’ as it would be to say the whole student body is composed of
scholars.

[Sidenote: Democratic character.]

Within itself the University is very democratic. The lines of social
cleavage are rather vertical than horizontal. There is a thorough
atmosphere of personal independence. While peculiarities and
eccentricities are discouraged, yet originality—so long as it does not
annoy—is at a premium, and individuality is sacred to an extent best
known to Englishmen. The diversity of interests and the variety of
pursuits in which Oxford men are daily engaged cover almost as wide a
range as the catalogue of individual tastes.

With all this diversity of taste and pursuit, the students within the
University commonwealth are alike in this, that, whether from noble,
aristocratic, or middle-class families, they generally represent
achievement and ambition—and _most_ of them regard their University
course as a training for active political, professional, literary,
or social life. Oxford and Cambridge claim pre-eminently to fit the
men, who by reason of birth or merit succeed to the leading places in
British administration and thought, for the high places which they
are to fill. As Wellington gave credit for the victory of Waterloo to
the ‘playing-fields of Eton’, so England gives credit for innumerable
triumphs, military, civil, and political, for achievements, physical,
intellectual, and moral, to the playing-fields and the river, the
lecture-rooms and the firesides of Oxford. The University boasts that
it trains men to live lives both of achievement and of enjoyment, to
meet exigencies and emergencies as they arise—to be not only men but
gentlemen. Oxford and Cambridge degrees are accepted in England as
educational hall-marks.

[Sidenote: Social.]

Clubs and cliques and social discriminations, of course, exist, but they
are little paraded. One’s social relations and activities are little
known outside the circle to which they appertain. There is a rare freedom
from ‘’Varsity Politics’. Athletic professionalism is an absent quantity.
Oxford neither knows nor understands the spirit of the German student
_Verbindung_ or of the American ‘College Fraternity’. In fact many phases
of the ‘fraternizing’ spirit seem lacking in Oxford life.

The nearest approach to the ‘Class organization’ or organization
by Departments which influences University life in America, is the
predominance of the College in Oxford life. Clear lines between ‘Senior’,
‘Junior,’ ‘Sophomore,’ and ‘Freshmen’ are not drawn; there are no Class
organizations and Class activities—such, for instance, as football
matches, cane-rushes, editing the College Annual, and the ‘Junior Prom.’
There is some natural separation but no artificial cleavage between
students of different years. The relations between a ‘Fresher’ and a
‘Second year’ or ‘Third year’ man, for instance, are subject to certain
conventions and formalities of introduction which Oxford emphasizes only
in their practice, but, beyond that, social relations are only limited by
one’s own personality.

[Sidenote: Conservatism.]

To say that Oxford is Conservative is almost to state an axiom. The
‘town’ is Conservative; the University is Conservative; the students
are Conservative. Conscious of this characteristic, Oxford cultivates
it to some extent as an ideal. Pointing to history, and emphasizing
results, it justifies Conservatism, yet its Conservatism should not
be magnified. The town, rejoicing for the present in the artistic
inconvenience of horse-cars and some other like antiquities, nevertheless
continues a study and a discussion of motor-trams and motor-’buses, and
will doubtless some day adopt that form of conveyance which it decides
best. Likewise the University, feeling a certain prejudice against
innovations and a certain suspicion of new methods and practices,
looks with a critical eye upon new theories, new educational ideas and
suggestions, and yet it is generally ready to appropriate and to apply
those productions of modern thought and genius which prove themselves, by
surviving the experimental stage, really worth while. Oxford Conservatism
is essentially a thinking attitude. In the realm of politics, ‘Socialism’
as it is commonly cried in many of the Continental Universities,
is tabooed in Oxford. ‘Conservatives’—and every Oxford man has his
politics—outnumber ‘Liberals’, although not by any great majority. Oxford
has seldom stood for other than Tory principles; and yet one has not far
to look in English history to see how time and again reform movements and
the promulgation of new and radical ideas have originated and found their
support in ‘the Universities’.

[Sidenote: Comfort.]

Oxford would not be English if it did not emphasize comfort—personal
comfort. True, it has many inconveniences and lacks some of the fittings
which add to the perfection of modern buildings. It is hard to reconcile
old buildings and modern conveniences. Lamp and candle still shed the
only light in at least one College—but this is not the rule; nearly every
College building in Oxford has been ‘wired’, and table-lamps as well as
drop-light ‘switch on’ in student rooms at the ‘press of the button’.
Modern baths and showers (except a few new buildings) and a University
gymnasium are wanting; but every man has his ‘tub’; and the gymnasium
‘though missing is not missed’—for all outdoors is the Oxford gymnasium.
For boxing, wrestling, and fencing there are private gymnasiums.

But for the solid everyday comfort of well-furnished apartments, of good
cooking and excellent service, for freedom from bother with details, for
convenient arrangements for athletic sports and for social life, Oxford
provides as by a high art. The ‘strenuous life’ is frequently better
known by its absence than otherwise, and many people in Oxford dislike
even the sound of those words; yet there is a clear track and every
opportunity for the man who insists on being strenuous.

[Sidenote: Artistic surroundings.]

Added to the personal comforts are the artistic and scholastic
comforts—if one may speak of them as such—with which the student is
surrounded. The natural beauties of Oxford’s environment are a fit
setting for the classic treasures of architecture which have risen in
irregular grouping throughout the mediaeval town. As the student comes
and goes, as he sits at his lecture, he is, consciously or unconsciously,
living in an atmosphere of artistic realities. And then again, one
cannot but remember now and then that he is sitting on the same benches
or writing at the same table where once sat or wrote many of the men
whose lives or whose works he is set to study, and whose portraits now
stare down upon him from the walls opposite or whose coats of arms are
blazoned on the oak panelling around him. Then as for books and libraries
and reading-rooms—whether one wishes to dig among ancient texts or
manuscripts, to consult reference libraries, or to fill one’s own shelves
with books old and new, where can Oxford be surpassed?

[Sidenote: Cosmopolitanism.]

As a cosmopolitan intellectual centre Oxford is a Mecca to which
pilgrims flock from all parts of the world; pilgrims with brains,
pilgrims without brains; those who want to learn and those who do _not_
want to learn; bookworms, athletes, soldiers, ‘sports,’ workers and
idlers; sons of noblemen, sons of commoners; not Englishmen alone, but
Indians, Japanese, Chinese, Russians, Egyptians, Germans, and Frenchmen.
All this variety of student units go about looking very much alike in
the conventional ‘lounge’ garb of Oxford; so that only an intimate
acquaintance reveals the true cosmopolitanism of its personnel and of its
intellectual life.

[Sidenote: The ‘College’.]

Although the University encircles, and, in constitutional and
jurisdictional matters, exercises authority over the Colleges, it is
really only the sum of the Colleges, each of which is in turn only
the sum of its members. While the University is thus only a union of
the Colleges for attaining such ends and such status as can better be
attained by united than by isolated existence, the College is a real
and concrete thing, the foundation stone of the ‘Oxford System’. Each
College is within itself independent; each has its own traditions and
some characteristics of organization, life, and system which are peculiar
to itself. With the affairs of the College individually the University is
not concerned.

The Colleges as they exist to-day suggest some features of the monastery,
some of the ancient hostelry, some of the fashionable hotel, some of
the College dormitory, and some of the bachelor’s club—they combine
church, lecture-rooms, dining-halls, professors’ houses, College clubs
and students’ apartments, all within the radius of College walls, all
accessible only through College gates, all capable of being shut off from
the outside world, at once castle and prison.

To the University there come each year about 900 new men: there are in
residence about 2,800; of these each College has from 40 to 300. During
his first and second year the student is generally required to live in
College, while in his third he may (except in a few instances) and often
_must_ go out into ‘digs’, that is, into ‘licensed lodgings’ in the town.

The life of the College is real Oxford life. It was this which Cecil
Rhodes cherished most in his reverence for his University; it was this
which gave him his confidence in the ‘Oxford System’.

As with individuals so with these Colleges—the longer one’s acquaintance,
the better one realizes that each College is independent, has its
individuality, its own traditions, and its own personal character. This
makes College life again a difficult subject upon which to generalize.
Certain technical characteristics, however, are common to all. The
College buildings are arranged in quadrangles, in each of which are
several ‘stairs’. On each stair are a number of suites of rooms, eight
suites being perhaps the average. There are no corridors, so that each
stair is as it were a house by itself. Each student has rooms to himself,
a ‘sitter’, which serves as living and dining room, and a ‘bedder’
always; while often a ‘thirder’ adds the convenience of a separate
study-room. Each suite has also a small cupboard-pantry, and there is
usually on each stair a ‘scout’s pantry’ (or kitchen). Each stair has a
‘scout’ and one or two ‘scout’s boys’, who are servants-in-general to all
the men on the stair.

The system of breakfasting, lunching, and entertaining in one’s rooms
makes the undergraduate at once a host and a householder. When at
rare intervals a student wishes to be left alone with his books or
his thoughts he may ‘sport his oak’, that is, he may slam the heavy
oaken outer door, well known to readers of _Tom Brown_, whose inside
spring-lock bars entrance even to friends who may be familiar enough
to ignore the suggestion of its closing. The great elasticity of
the tutoring and examination system further makes it possible for
the undergraduate to study or not as he may choose, and to dispose
of his time practically at his own sweet will. In these respects
the Oxford student enjoys an independence which is almost unknown
elsewhere—excepting in some of the German Universities.

[Sidenote: The Oxford day.]

As the activities of Oxford readily resolve themselves into scholastic,
athletic, and social, so the Oxford day, the natural Oxford day, in
respect to morning, afternoon, and evening, approximately adopts this
order.

Voluntary early rising is not the fashion, but eight o’clock chapel or
roll-call compels it on half, or more than half, the days of Term, while
the demands of training prevent many men from sleeping as late as their
less strenuous fellows. As compared with American students, however, on
their native soil, the Oxford student is a late riser. The voice of the
scout and the slamming of a bath-tub on the floor rouse the student to a
consciousness of the new day. Morning hours begin invariably with a cold
tub. Chapel, if attended (ritual service only), requires about fifteen
minutes.

Breakfast is taken in one’s own rooms or in the rooms of a friend, alone,
or with three or four friends or guests—for the breakfast hour is a
favourite time for entertaining, and enjoying a social meal. An Oxford
‘brekker’ is very different from the coffee and rolls of the Continent—it
is a good, hearty meal, with satisfying solid courses.

Most lectures are given between nine and one o’clock. These four hours,
more than any others, are Oxford’s _formal_ work-time, while the hours
from eight in the evening on are those also given to work.

Luncheon, if the student lunch in his rooms or in the College Common-room
(only possible in a few Colleges), is a very light meal. But luncheon,
again, is a favourite medium for entertaining, especially on Sundays, and
when one has guests, luncheon loses its ordinarily simple character.

It requires a more or less elaborate system, especially in a large
College, to provide for and keep up with the wants of two or three
hundred tables. The cooking is all done in the College kitchen, and from
there are sent the dishes which the student orders through his scout.
Milk, bread, cheese, ‘drinks,’ and so forth are supplied by the College
buttery; cakes, candies, fruits, tea, coffee, and tobaccos are usually
obtained from the College ‘Common-room’—all are sent to the ‘stair’, and
the scout serves the tables upon the stair. Every student has tea and
coffee and sugar, and usually a shelf full of such edibles and drinkables
as he chooses, together with dishes and ‘plate’ in his pantry. A kettle
of water is usually boiling, or ready to boil, on the trivet before his
fireplace, so that he is always prepared to dispense a substantial as
well as a cordial hospitality.

[Sidenote: Athletics.]

The afternoon is given up to sport. Oxford students probably give more
time to athletics than any other body of students in the world. At
Heidelberg, aside from a few sporadic efforts on the river, the most
strenuous exercise indulged in seems to be on the blood-stained floor of
the duelling-room in the ‘Hirschgasse’, but less than half the students
indulge in this energetic crossing of swords. The French students
scarcely understand the term ‘athletics’ at all. America and England
lead, and although the American College has a good deal of athletics, and
sometimes too much, it is athletics for the minority, whereas at Oxford
almost everybody ‘goes in for something’.

The students come from that class which can and does take the greatest
interest in all manner of sports and athletic games. In the ‘Public
Schools’ the boys learn the rules and requirements of their games, and
get about all the coaching they ever get. Men do not often _learn_ games
at the ’Varsity; they play them. ‘Practice’ is a word little heard on
a College field; only in rowing is a systematic and an evolutionary
coaching-system in practice.

Each College has its own boats, its own football and cricket and hockey
teams, with its own playing-fields. There is a constant programme of
inter-college contests.

The Oxford idea is ‘exercise for every one’, a thing of vital importance
for keeping in condition in the climate of Oxford. Exercise is taught
the English boy with his A, B, C. Of the 2,800 students who keep Term at
Oxford, fully two-thirds are out engaging in some vigorous exercise every
afternoon. For games, it is not requisite that one be a ‘star’—every one
may find room at something or other. The men who show up best in their
College teams or in College crews are ‘tried’ for the ’Varsity. Thus the
’Varsity teams and crews are chosen from a _very large number_ of men who
are actually engaged in and practising the sports for which ’Varsity men
are needed, and under this system athletic ability is often discovered
which, under systems where only ‘promising candidates’ ever ‘try’, would
never even be suspected.

The game more than the victory is the objective in College contests,[47]
and although this may rob the play of a certain intense strenuousness, it
at the same time eliminates roughness and foul play.

With the exception of rowing, systematic coaching and serious training
are little applied. At times, this causes a decided lack of that
efficiency which results from precise ‘team-work’, and may be criticized
as leaving too much to the brilliancy of individual playing; but it
eliminates professionalism and trickery.

There is little business connected with College athletics. The expenses
of field and pavilion and barge and boats are met from subscriptions to
the ‘amalgamated clubs’—to which nearly every College man belongs. The
expenditure of a team is slight. The College provides the field. Every
man furnishes his own ‘togs’, of which a different sort are required
for nearly every sport. The clubs furnish boats and balls, and the few
requisites which must be common property. Only to ’Varsity matches
(and not to all of them) is admission charged. Almost no one watches a
College match, for the simple reason that every one who is not playing
on the field is engaged somewhere else at some other game. There is no
‘rooting’. A few scattered cheers break out at times, but there is no
organized ‘encouragement’. One feature of Oxford athletics which is in
striking antithesis to American College athletics is, that here, the more
prominent and successful an athlete becomes, the greater his expenses, as
he buys his own outfits, his own ‘blazers’, often pays his own railroad
fares, usually incurs numerous social obligations, and receives no
‘compensation’ further than a row of shining prizes which may adorn his
mantle-shelf.

From the river and fields the men come in at about 4.30 for tea. Years
ago a German traveller wrote in his diary, ‘To the Englishman tea is as
necessary as to the German his beer.’ The customs have not changed.
In this respect as in others ‘Oxford is nothing if not the reflection
of English life’. As a social institution the tea-hour, with rest
and ‘something to eat’ and lively conversation ‘after the game’, is
thoroughly enjoyable; while as a practical institution it is a necessity,
as dinner is two and a half hours away and the inner man needs immediate
fortifying after the vigorous exercise of the past two hours.

The hard-working man, then, has a chance to get in two hours of reading
between tea-time and dinner.

[Sidenote: Evening.]

After the bells have struck seven the students stream, in gown and
bare-headed, toward their College halls. At this one time during the day
the students of each College really gather in a body. In the semi-gloom
of the long hall, with its high ceiling and panelled, portrait-hung
walls, with fireplaces glowing and electric lights illumining white
cloths and bright silver, the tables are arranged in long rows, with
flanking of narrow, backless benches on each side. Students file in;
dons and Master enter, in evening dress, their loose gowns flowing back
from their shoulders as they stride to ‘high table’. After the reading
of a _Benedictus benedicat_ all sit down and fall-to right merrily.
The dinner hour can hardly be styled a social hour—in hall; in fact,
so business-like does it become at certain undergraduate tables that
it might well appear to the casual observer——but, as a matter of fact,
casual observers are not allowed entrance.

After dinner the men gather in little knots about the bulletin-boards or
drift into the Common-room, there in the College club-rooms to spend a
few minutes over the newspapers, writing notes, consulting the bulletins,
athletic reports and predictions, or engaging in conversation over
coffee-cups and a quiet smoke. Or little groups go off to this or that
room for ‘coffee’ and a social hour or evening; while many go straight
away to libraries or work-tables.

The possible divisions for the evening are too numerous for even a
summary; but of the serious possibilities there are numerous debating
and literary societies in every College. There are University Clubs,
literary, musical, social, political; the Union Debates, parliamentary
in their training, occur every Thursday evening; on Sunday evenings
the Balliol Concerts provide excellent programmes of music, open to
undergraduates; under town auspices and under University auspices, Oxford
is given opportunity throughout Term-time to hear much of the best
musical talent; visits and addresses by the leaders of English political
and ecclesiastical thought are frequent, and are thoroughly appreciated
by the undergraduate body.

An attempt to describe the difference between the activities of one
Term and another would lead too far afield. Three times each year the
men ‘come up’, spend eight weeks in Oxford, and go down again for the
three Vacations, which last six, six, and sixteen weeks respectively. No
small amount—in the case of many men the major portion—of the student’s
‘work’ is done during these Vacations. To some men the Vacation is the
‘dull season’ and Term-time is play-time; to others Term-time is a
season for filling up notebooks and Vacation a time for learning what
has been written into them. To some the object of life seems to be
reading; to others, athletics and sports in general. There is no ‘dull
season’ in Oxford athletics. Football, hockey, lacrosse, &c., are played
in the two winter Terms; rowing goes on the year round, as does track
practice; tennis, cricket, and the ‘slacking’ forms of river exercise are
favourites in the Summer Term. The Oxford-Cambridge Rugby match is played
in the Christmas Vacation; the Oxford-Cambridge Boat-race and the field
sports take place in the Spring Vacation. The pleasures of Oxford Summer
Term, ‘Eights week,’ ‘Commem.,’ and Henley, lead to the realm of poetry
and have no place in a handbook.

Some critics complain that men waste their time in Oxford. So they do,
_some of them_—and so they do elsewhere. It is all a matter of manner and
degree, and a question of what constitutes waste. One might do almost
no work in Oxford and yet do just the opposite of wasting his time—if
he use his eyes and ears. There is that about Oxford which breathes of
History, which exhales Romance, which is redolent of culture, which
fills the very atmosphere with the spirit of hospitality. One need only
walk through the College ‘quads’ and cloisters, follow the windings of
the ‘finest architectural street in Europe’, ‘the High,’ wander through
meadow and park, along the banks of Isis and Cherwell, through Addison’s
Walk, through ‘Mesopotamia’, or out on the hills where Shelley delighted
to pass long afternoons, or off to the north where Gladstone walked
alone; one must, if he have any capacity, get something of a liberal
education; he cannot fail of inspiration. One may go to lectures on
Literature and History, and, without ever taking a note, carry away
impressions of what _has been_ and what _is_ and what _is going to be_ in
the world, especially in the English world, and in life and thought both
ancient and modern.

It is impossible to tell some one else just what Oxford _is_—but Oxford
_as it MAY BE_ is a question with which every Oxford man has to deal
for himself. Oxford is a home of ‘influences’; it is all too frequently
referred to as the ‘home of lost causes’; what it becomes for each man
who trusts himself or is entrusted to its ‘influence’, depends largely
upon himself. The University offers each man wide fields for the
investment of his time and talent—it offers much for one to learn—but
it does not do much choosing for one, nor does it set itself as a
task-master.

It is often hard to take Oxford seriously. Examinations seem a far-away,
hazy something, too often forgotten, as each day unrolls a tempting
programme of delights other than books. Unlimited credit causes many
an unthinking undergraduate to step deep into debt before he stops
to reflect that tradesmen _do_ keep accounts. The freedom of a life
where every man is expected to think and act for himself offers every
opportunity for self-improvement or self-destruction. But there is
always a day of reckoning. Sooner or later examinations stare one in the
face and bills roll in from every side. The student has kept his Terms
and Oxford has offered him what he has chosen to take. The man who has
reckoned well with his time and his money will take something far more
valuable than his degree from Oxford. The man who has looked upon his
’Varsity years as a mere summer of pleasure has also gotten much out of
his ‘College course’, but in its last days he may find much cause to
quote from the ‘grasshopper and the ant’.

The _University Calendar_ for 1906-7 shows a total of 3,663
undergraduates at present enrolled.[48]

  Matriculations, 1905-6       926
  B.A. Degrees,     ”          660
  M.A. Degrees,     ”          382


COLLEGES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD.

  ------------------+--------------------------+----------+--------------+
                    |                          |          |Correspondence|
     The Colleges.  |     Name of Head.        | Title of |  should be   |
                    |                          |   Head.  |addressed to: |
                    |                          |          |     The      |
  ------------------+--------------------------+----------+--------------+
  All Souls         |Sir William Reynell Anson,|Warden    |              |
                    |  Bart., M.P., D.C.L.     |          |              |
  Balliol           |Edward Caird, M.A., Hon.  |Master    |Senior Tutor  |
                    |  D.C.L.                  |          |              |
  Brasenose         |Charles Buller Heberden,  |Principal |Principal     |
                    |  M.A.                    |          |              |
  Christ Church     |Thomas Banks Strong, D.D. |Dean      |Dean          |
  Corpus Christi    |Thomas Case, M.A.         |President |President     |
  Exeter            |William Walrond Jackson,  |Rector    |Rector        |
                    |  D.D.                    |          |              |
  Hertford          |Henry Boyd, D.D.          |Principal |Principal _or_|
                    |                          |          |Senior Tutor  |
  Jesus             |John Rhys, D.Litt.        |Principal |Principal     |
  Keble             |Walter Lock, D.D.         |Warden    |Warden        |
  Lincoln           |William Walter Merry, D.D.|Rector    |Rector        |
  Magdalen          |Thomas Herbert Warren,    |President |President     |
                    |  M.A.[49]                |          |              |
  Merton            |Thomas Bowman, M.A.       |Warden    |Warden        |
  New               |William Archibald Spooner,|Warden    |Warden        |
                    |  D.D.                    |          |              |
  Oriel             |Charles Lancelot Shadwell,|Provost   |Provost       |
                    |  D.C.L.                  |          |              |
  Pembroke          |The Rt. Rev. John         |Master    |Master        |
                    |  Mitchinson, D.C.L.      |          |              |
  Queen’s           |John Richard Magrath, D.D.|Provost   |Provost       |
  St. John’s        |James Bellamy, D.D.       |President |President     |
  Trinity           |Henry Francis Pelham, M.A.|President |President     |
  University        |Reginald Walter Macan,    |Master    |Master        |
                    |  M.A., D.Litt.           |          |              |
  Wadham            |Patrick Arkley            |Warden    |Warden        |
                    |  Wright-Henderson, D.D.  |          |              |
  Worcester         |Charles Henry Oliver      |Provost   |Provost       |
                    |  Daniel, D.D.            |          |              |
  St. Edmund Hall   |Edward Moore, D.D.        |Principal |Principal     |
  Non-Coll. Delegacy|Richard William Massy     |Censor    |Censor        |
                    |  Pope, D.D.              |          |              |
  ------------------+--------------------------+----------+--------------+

  ------------------+--------------+---------+---------+--------------
                    |  Number of   |         |         | Abbreviation
     The Colleges.  |Undergraduates| Date of |Order of |  sometimes
                    |  enrolled    |Founding.|Founding.|   used for
                    |    1906-7.   |         |         |  the name.
  ------------------+--------------+---------+---------+--------------
  All Souls         |        4     |  1437   |    9    |
  Balliol           |      236     |  1268   |    2    | Bal.
  Brasenose         |      111     |  1509   |   11    | B.N.C.
  Christ Church     |      304     |  1532   |   13    | Ch.Ch.
  Corpus Christi    |       93     |  1516   |   12    | C.C.C.
  Exeter            |      204     |  1314   |    4    | Ex.
  Hertford          |      116     |  1874   |   20    | Hert.
  Jesus             |      140     |  1571   |   16    |
  Keble             |      215     |  1870   |   21    |
  Lincoln           |       99     |  1427   |    8    | Linc.
  Magdalen          |      169     |  1456   |   10    | Magd.
  Merton            |      127     |  1264   |    3    | Mert.
  New               |      317     |  1379   |    7    |
  Oriel             |      138     |  1326   |    5    |
  Pembroke          |      104     |  1624   |   18    | Pemb.
  Queen’s           |      159     |  1340   |    6    |
  St. John’s        |      203     |  1555   |   15    | St. J.
  Trinity           |      172     |  1554   |   14    | Trin.
  University        |      200     |  1249   |    1    | Univ.
  Wadham            |      111     |  1613   |   17    | Wadh.
  Worcester         |      123     |  1714   |   19    | Worc.
  St. Edmund Hall   |       48     |  1269   |         | St. E.
  Non-Coll. Delegacy|      216     |  1868   |         | Non-Coll.
  ------------------+--------------+---------+---------+--------------




CHAPTER VI

THE OXFORD SYSTEM

UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE GOVERNMENT, METHODS OF INSTRUCTION, COURSES OF
STUDY, DEGREES


[Sidenote: The point of view.]

Some one has said that a University, primarily considered, is less a
school than an atmosphere. This applies with peculiar force to Oxford.
Unlike American or German Universities, Oxford aims not primarily
to provide instruction, but rather to provide an atmosphere for the
many-sided Oxford life. For centuries, Oxford has been the training
school of the English gentleman. It stands pre-eminently for culture and
good breeding, for a liberal education in the widest and best sense, not
merely the knowledge that comes from books, but especially and above
all for the knowledge of men and affairs. It is the difference between
a training to make a living and a training to make a life, to put the
best _into_ life rather than to make the most _out_ of it. The highest
Oxford ideal is the scholar _and_ the gentleman, but the gentleman
first of all. A faithful reflex of English society, Oxford reflects its
most marked characteristic conservatism. Yet underneath this stratum of
healthy conservatism runs the current of twentieth-century life. Hence
its uniqueness, its complexity, its paradoxes. Conservative by force of
tradition and custom, Oxford breathes the liberal and tolerant spirit of
the twentieth century; exclusive and aristocratic, the Oxford life is
nevertheless very democratic; open to all, Oxford is not for all people;
faithful to her heritage of the Past, Oxford is still a leader in the
Present.

[Sidenote: The ‘system’.]

Yet, oddly enough, from the undergraduate’s point of view, the University
is practically a thing apart, an abstract intangible something which
touches the life of the well-behaved ‘undergrad’ only at examination
time, that is to say, twice during his Oxford career, or on that
more ceremonious occasion, ‘degree-day.’ The uninitiated stranger,
searching for information in the _Student’s Handbook_, is told that
the ‘University is a body corporate invested with all the usual powers
of corporations and also with various peculiar privileges, such as the
right of exercising jurisdiction, civil and criminal, over its members,
the right of returning two representatives to the House of Commons, and
the power of conferring degrees’. Not a word about the teaching Faculty
of the University or about courses of study. Instead, an institution
whose main function, as far as the student is concerned, is to hold
examinations and to confer degrees. Further inquiry leads to the
College. The collegiate system, both in regard to undergraduate life
and undergraduate instruction, is the counterpart to the more formal
functions of the University. Here is a dualism between College and
University unknown to most foreign students,—each a separate, independent
unit, a University existing side by side with twenty-one corporate
Societies, each leading an independent existence, and yet most intimately
connected with one another. If an attempt is here made to sketch this
complex and intricate system in its barest outlines, it is with a full
realization of the difficulties as well as at the risk of saying much
that is obvious. The background must be filled in by the reader from the
remarks made in the preceding chapter on the Oxford life. The point of
view of the prospective Rhodes Scholar has been kept in view throughout,
all unnecessary details or obscure and ambiguous terms being, as far as
possible, avoided.

[Sidenote: University government and administration. Vice-Chancellor,
Proctors.]

The acting head of the University is the Vice-Chancellor, the office
of Chancellor being purely honorary. The Heads of the several Colleges
are nominated by the Chancellor to the Vice-Chancellorship in order of
rotation, each holding office for a period of four years. Assisted by
the two Proctors, originally the heads of the two ‘nations’ of mediaeval
Oxford, the Vice-Chancellor exercises a general supervision over all
University affairs. It is the Vice-Chancellor who presides at all the
meetings of the governing bodies of the University. He also enjoys
extensive judicial powers. The University occupies a peculiar position
not only in relation to its own members, but to the city of Oxford as
well. In most criminal as well as in all civil cases, the University
has the right to try its members before its own court, popularly called
the Vice-Chancellor’s Court. The Vice-Chancellor, ably assisted by the
two Proctors—for in the eyes of the undergraduates this is their most
conspicuous function—is responsible for the maintenance of order and
discipline. No public entertainment, for instance, can be held in Oxford
without the consent of the Vice-Chancellor and of the Mayor.

[Sidenote: Convocation.]

[Sidenote: Congregation.]

[Sidenote: Hebdomadal Council.]

[Sidenote: ‘Statuta.’]

The constitution of the University of Oxford rests on a much wider basis
than that of most American or Colonial Universities. All graduates
who have kept up their connexion with the University through their
respective Colleges, whether resident in Oxford or not, and who have
taken the degree of Master of Arts, have a voice in the government of
the University, constituting the body known as _Convocation_. It is the
members of Convocation who elect the two University representatives
in the House of Commons. The majority of these graduates are not in
residence at Oxford, so that in actual working practice and under normal
conditions Convocation is almost identical with _Congregation_. This body
is composed of all resident members of Convocation, together with certain
_ex-officio_ members. The ordinary routine of University government is
transacted by means of standing Committees of Congregation, known as
_Delegacies_. All University legislation must originate with and in the
_Hebdomadal Council_, no proposition can even be discussed by the large
governing bodies of the University unless sanctioned by a majority of the
members of this Council. This consists of the three executive officers
of the University and eighteen other members elected by Congregation,
six each from the Heads of Colleges, University Professors, and
University graduates—Masters of Arts—of at least five years’ standing,
respectively. A new statute framed by the Council is then ‘promulgated’
in Congregation, where it may be rejected or passed with or without
amendment. If passed by Congregation, the statute is submitted to
Convocation, which must confirm or reject the measure in toto; it cannot
amend.[50] It may be said, in passing, for the benefit of those who are
labouring under the impression that reform from within is impossible at
Oxford, that, strange as it may seem, the non-resident graduates are
often, if not generally, the most conservative.

[Sidenote: The College.]

[Sidenote: Admission.]

[Sidenote: Non-Collegiate Delegacy.]

Entirely separate from the University in its corporate life and
existence, yet federally incorporated in the larger University body,
are the twenty-one Colleges or ‘Societies’ of Oxford. Each of these
twenty-one States of this larger Academic United States is an independent
unit, a self-governing, self-sufficient corporation, with its own
traditions, and its own history. The ‘Fellows’ of the College elect
their own Head; Christ Church as a Cathedral Chapter is an exception,
the Dean of Christ Church being appointed by the Crown. Each College
has its own endowments and its own property; each fixes the conditions
for admission to membership in the ‘Society’, each is responsible for
the discipline and conduct of its members, and provides for their
instruction and general welfare. No one can become a member of the
University unless he has been previously admitted to some College (or to
the body of Non-Collegiate Students). Most Colleges require candidates
for admission to pass an entrance examination, practically the equivalent
of the first University Examination, known as ‘Responsions’. Rhodes
Scholars, in virtue of having passed the qualifying examination for
the Scholarship, are excused from all other entrance examinations.
Four Colleges—Balliol, University, New College, and Corpus Christi
College—will admit only those candidates who intend to read for Honours.
It is as a member of some College (or of the Non-Collegiate body) that
a College-man becomes a member of the University, and it is the higher
degree of Master of Arts, conferred by the University upon the graduate
who has kept up his connexion with his College, which confers upon him
also the privilege of sharing in the government of his Alma Mater as
a member of Convocation. Recently, there has been established what is
known as the ‘_Non-Collegiate Delegacy_’. This approaches in organization
and administration an ordinary Oxford College. But there is this great
difference—Non-Collegiate students do not live within College walls, but
in lodgings in the city, much on the American or German plan.

[Sidenote: Residence.]

For the attainment of the ordinary University degrees there are certain
requirements of residence and scholarship. These requirements emphasize
the two most conspicuous features of the Oxford system, features which
most clearly reflect the dualism between the University and the Colleges,
viz. residence within College walls, with all that this means—the
Collegiate system,—and the distinctively University function of holding
examinations which lead to University degrees; the responsibility for
providing the necessary facilities and instruction for passing the
examinations resting in the main with the individual Colleges. It is the
College which must see to it that all its members who are candidates for
University degrees have satisfied, first of all, the statutable residence
requirements, and then that they are prepared to meet the examination
requirements of the University. No candidate, even though he may be
able to pass all the necessary examinations with success, can take his
degree without the necessary residence as a member of a College (or of
the Non-Collegiate body). This suggests again the great stress laid on
the larger aspect of an Oxford education, the great value of the larger
Oxford life as described in the preceding chapter.

[Sidenote: University Terms.]

For all practical purposes the academical year consists of three Terms of
eight weeks each:—

1. Michaelmas Term,—beginning on the first Monday after October 10.

2. Hilary or Lent Term,—on the first Monday after January 14.

3. Easter and Trinity Term,—kept continuously as one Term, beginning on
the second or third Monday after Easter Sunday, according as Easter falls
late or early.

For degree purposes, however, Easter and Trinity Terms are reckoned
separately, so that _four University Terms_ go to make up a year of
residence (or standing).[51]

These University Terms may be still further reduced. Michaelmas and
Hilary Terms may be kept by a residence of forty-two days respectively;
Easter and Trinity Terms by residing twenty-one days in each Term, or
forty-eight days in the two Terms conjointly.

Residence, or, in the words of the statute, ‘_victum sumendo et
pernoctando_,’ is no longer confined to living within the College
walls. Candidates for University degrees may under certain conditions
‘pernoctate’ in lodgings.

[Sidenote: Lodgings.]

The Rhodes Trustees have decided that every Rhodes Scholar shall reside
in College for at least the first two years at Oxford, except in cases
where the College is unable to offer him rooms. At the end of two years
of residence in College, Rhodes Scholars who have either taken an Oxford
degree, or who are of ‘mature age’ as defined by University regulations,
i. e. twenty-five years or over, may, with the permission of the College
authorities and the consent of the Rhodes Trust, live in _unlicensed_
lodgings during their third year. All others who cannot satisfy one of
these two conditions are required to live in _licensed_ lodgings, which
are under the direct supervision of University authorities.

[Sidenote: Degrees.]

[Sidenote: Possible to Rhodes Scholars.]

The University of Oxford grants degrees in Arts, Music, Medicine
(Surgery), Law, and Divinity, to which must be added the recently
instituted ‘research’ degrees in Letters and Science. Special advanced
courses, extending over a year or two, are offered in Education,
Geography, Public Health, Economics, Anthropology, Mining and
Engineering, and Forestry, for which a certificate or diploma, but no
_degree_, is granted. We are concerned here only with those degrees
which are possible to the Rhodes Scholars. As has already been stated,
all candidates for an Oxford Bachelor’s degree (except the degree in
Music) must satisfy certain requirements of residence and scholarship.
The degrees which will be open to the Rhodes Scholar who remains in
Oxford _only_ for the three years of his Scholarship are:—

1. _The ordinary Bachelor of Arts_ degree,—which, except on certain
conditions, requires twelve University Terms of residence, i. e. three
academic years; and

2. The more advanced, or ‘post-graduate’, _degrees_ of _Bachelor in
Letters_, _Science_, or _Civil Law_,—which can only be taken, upon
satisfying certain preliminary qualifications, after a residence of at
least eight University Terms, i. e. at the end of the second year.

[Sidenote: ‘Standing.’]

To proceed to the higher degrees, there are no further requirements of
residence, but only of _standing_. This consists in keeping the name
on the books of the College whether resident or not, and paying the
quarterly dues to the University. In practice it amounts to paying a
nominal sum annually to the College, which pays the University dues for
the candidate for higher degrees. This is technically known as keeping
Terms of standing.

_Master of Arts._ This degree can be taken only by an Oxford B.A. upon
entering on his twenty-seventh Term from matriculation, i. e. after six
and a half years. There are no further requirements of scholarship.[52]

_D.Litt._, _D.Sc._, _D.C.L._ Candidates who have taken the Bachelor’s
degree in Letters or Science may proceed to the Doctorate in the
twenty-seventh Term from the date of their matriculation. Bachelors of
Civil Law cannot take the degree of D.C.L. until the expiration of five
years from the time of their admission to the B.C.L. In any case, all
candidates for the Doctor’s degree in Letters, Science, or Civil Law
are required to submit a dissertation which has contributed to the
advancement of knowledge in their particular field.

[Sidenote: Advanced standing.]

The University grants advanced standing, Junior or Senior, to students
from Colonial and Foreign Universities upon certain conditions which
are prescribed by Decree in respect of the individual Universities.[53]
Students from these Universities or Colleges enjoy the following
privileges:—

[Sidenote: Junior standing.]

Any Undergraduate who has pursued a course of study extending over at
least two years at some recognized University or College, and who becomes
a candidate for Honours at Oxford, is allowed to take his degree of
Bachelor of Arts at the end of his _eighth_, instead of the _twelfth_,
Term of residence. As far as the Rhodes Scholars are concerned, Junior
standing merely reduces the necessary residence requirement from three to
two years, and exempts from no University examinations except Responsions
(including the ‘Additional Subject’).[54]

[Sidenote: Senior standing.]

Three years of study, with final Honours, at some recognized University
or College, is demanded as the necessary qualification for Senior
standing. This exempts from Responsions _and_ the _Intermediate
Examination_ (including the Holy Scripture Examination),[55] and reduces
the necessary residence requirement for the B. A. in some one of the
Honour Schools to two years. A Rhodes Scholar, therefore, who has been
granted Senior standing is required to take _only_ some Final Honour
Examination, and may take his degree at the end of his second year.

Students from other than Affiliated or Privileged Universities may
make application for advanced standing. Each case will be considered
on its own individual merits, on the evidence of scholarship furnished
by the applicant as well as on the general standing of the College
or University from which he comes. If his claims are approved, he is
admitted to the same privileges as students from the Affiliated or
Privileged Universities. All such applications should be made through the
proper authorities of the applicant’s Oxford College, and as early as
possible.[56]

[Sidenote: Certain Colonial students exempted from the qualifying
Examination.]

[Sidenote: The ‘Rhodes examination’ exempts from Responsions.]

[Sidenote: Oxford System.]

Students of Affiliated _Colonial_ Universities or Colleges, who satisfy
the conditions for advanced standing prescribed by the particular Oxford
Statute for their respective Universities or Colleges, are excused from
the qualifying examination held by the Rhodes Trust for the Rhodes
Scholarships. At present all Candidates for Rhodes Scholarships in
the _United States_ are required to pass this examination, though it
is probable that a similar exemption will soon be granted to students
of Privileged American Universities. All Rhodes Scholars are accepted
by Oxford Colleges and by the University without further test, the
qualifying examination for the Scholarship being accepted by the
University of Oxford as the equivalent of ‘Responsions’, the first
University examination.

Less than a half-century ago, the collegiate system was still supreme;
it was to the College, that the undergraduate looked for ‘nutrimentum
spiritus—et corporis’. There was but little University teaching and no
University life. The examination system—introduced in 1805—was gradually
raising the standard and requirements of scholarship. But for a few
Professorial lectures, the University did practically nothing to provide
for the teaching of its members; it merely conducted examinations
and granted degrees. With the widening bounds of knowledge, and the
incorporation of new subjects in the University Examination Statutes,—and
especially with the successful invasion—despite Ruskin’s defiance
of ‘Science’ and the scientific spirit, the inevitable duplication
of instructors and the consequent necessary increase in College
expenditure made the need of a closer and more effective organization
of the teaching body more and more imperative. One of the first steps
in this direction—which also marked the first encroachment on the
old collegiate system—was the establishment in 1877-82 of the new
University Professorships and the extension of the University Museum
and scientific laboratories. This was followed by the large development
of the system of inter-collegiate lectures and by the appointment of
University Professors and of lecturers and tutors from other Colleges
to assist in the tutorial and lecture work of the separate Colleges.
These developments have overcome most of the serious defects of the
decentralization of the collegiate system of teaching, felt in the lack
of continuity or in the unavoidable overlapping of lecture-courses, as
well as in the duplication and the inadequacy of the instructional force
at any one College. They have provided the material out of which is
being gradually evolved and organized a ‘graduate School’. In the closer
relations between University and College, and in this more effective
organization of the teaching body, Oxford is approaching the American and
the German systems.

[Sidenote: Character of courses.]

Before giving a brief sketch of Oxford methods of instruction, it
will be well to warn those unfamiliar with the system against certain
very natural but entirely erroneous ideas and misconceptions on this
subject. First of all, there is at Oxford no sharp line of division
between undergraduate and post-graduate work. A Bachelor’s degree in
Arts (Honours), Letters, Science, or Civil Law can hardly be compared
with an American B.A. or B.Litt. The requirements for the ordinary
Bachelor’s degree in the Honour Schools are very high and rigid; all work
is concentrated along one definite line. ‘Specialization’, as generally
understood, is not an apt designation of the course of study. There
is a very considerable amount of general reading to do—much of it in
private and during the Vacations—of which the examination requirements
hardly give an adequate idea. And while method, _as method_, is not
particularly emphasized or taught, some of the original sources in the
field of work are studied, and thorough scientific work is done in the
laboratories. An Oxford (Honour) B.A. therefore represents much more than
mere routine undergraduate work. The work for the degree of Bachelor in
Letters, Science, or Law may be fairly described as the equivalent of
‘post-graduate’ work. Thorough research, a dissertation or a special
course of advanced study, followed in the case of the degree in Law by
a very difficult examination, written and viva voce, are required, and
a very high standard is set. One of the first ideas of which a Rhodes
Scholar must disabuse himself is that the path to an Oxford Honour
degree is smooth and easy.

[Sidenote: Pass and Honour courses.]

Another point must be emphasized. The ordinary and traditional course of
procedure of an Oxford ‘Freshman’ is to register for the B.A. degree.
But this is not all. He must decide whether he will read for the Pass or
the Honour examination. In the former, there is only one standard, and
there are no limits of standing within which the course of study must
be completed. The Pass-man comes up to Oxford to live the social life,
to take advantage of all its many opportunities for self-improvement,
self-culture, self-development, and, incidentally, to acquire a modicum
of knowledge. The man reading for ‘Honours’, on the other hand, naturally
has to meet much higher requirements for the examinations. His success
is measured by his place in the ‘Class Lists’, those who have passed
the examination being distributed into three or four ‘Classes’, each
representing a different level of merit. Furthermore, the Honour-man
cannot take his examinations at his leisure. No one who has exceeded a
certain number of Terms reckoned from his matriculation is admitted to
the examination.

In all cases, however, candidates for any Bachelor’s degree (except
occasionally for the ‘research’ degrees), will find the system of
instruction the same. This consists partly of lectures, University or
College, and partly of personal tuition, provided by the College. All
work, whether it be lectures or work done for and with the Tutor, is
governed by, and planned to meet, the requirements as fixed by the
Examination Statutes.

[Sidenote: Lectures. System.]

All lectures are sharply divided into ‘Pass’ and ‘Honour’ lectures, and
are designed to meet the requirements for Pass or Honour examinations.
Most ‘Pass’ lectures are delivered by College Lecturers and Tutors for
members of the particular College only (no members of other Colleges
being admitted). ‘Honour’ lectures, however, are practically open to
all members of the University, under the new system of inter-collegiate
lectures. Both University Professors and Lecturers and College Lecturers
and Tutors deliver Honour lectures, University and College lectures being
practically merged in one system. The distinction between Professorial
and College lectures has become one of origins only; in practice, it
has been almost obliterated. Occasionally, Professors give a series of
‘Public Lectures’, that is, lectures open to the general public as well
as to members of the University.

Lectures, however, are not the most important part of the system.
The best and most telling work is done privately under the Tutor’s
direction. There is no ‘credit’ or ‘hour’ system; there are no ‘required
courses’. Strictly speaking, attendance at lectures is not compulsory.
Theoretically, it is even possible to take an Oxford degree without
attending a single lecture. However, as all lectures are based on, and
intended to meet, the examination requirements, undergraduates find
it advisable to attend those lectures which will be of use for the
‘Schools’—the final examinations. Few men go to more than ten lectures
a week, and after passing the intermediate examination the average
tends to become even less. Since the introduction of inter-collegiate
lectures, a well-organized system of lectures has been made possible,
especially in the Classical and Modern History work, Theology, and
Mathematics, together with very complete and efficient private tuition.
Due largely to the expense involved, as well as to the character of the
teaching required, the University provides for most of the instruction in
Theology, Law, Natural Science, and Medicine.[57]

[Sidenote: The Tutor.]

Perhaps the most characteristic and salient feature of the Oxford system
is the personal tuition, the private and informal teaching, which each
College provides for its members. On admission to the College, the
newcomer is assigned to a Tutor under whose guidance and supervision he
is to pursue his studies, not only during Term-time at Oxford, but also
during the Vacations. The conscientious Tutor gets to know his protégé
intimately, his strong and his weak points; he can gauge accurately and
justly his qualities, capacities, and possibilities; he is in a position
to recognize and to provide for his particular needs. The personal
equation is here all-important. The strongest point in the system may
be at once the source of its greatest weakness. A few sober-minded,
persistent, and strenuous individuals may achieve moderate success
despite an incapable Tutor. On the other hand, a strong, sympathetic, and
conscientious Tutor may often work wonders with unpromising material.

[Sidenote: The method.]

An Oxford man ‘reads’ for his degree. This is characteristic. Much as
depends on the Tutor, in the last resort the student is dependent on
himself—on the ‘reading’ he does privately. The Tutor is merely an
adviser and a guide; there are disciplinary rules, to be sure; but there
are no final grades at the end of each Term’s work, and there is no
actual compulsion. A man may do much or he may do little—that will depend
entirely upon himself. This is ‘his business’, and so long as he conducts
himself properly, the Tutor has practically no means of constraint,
except to remind the student of the Damocles’ sword in the shape of the
University examinations. The whole system is based on individualism—on a
free and easy relationship between Tutor and taught. It is conscientious
individual effort under capable and sympathetic supervision that leads to
success in the final examinations—‘the Schools’. The Tutor advises the
student to attend certain lecture courses; he suggests certain books for
private reading, the result of which is generally embodied in the form
of an essay, or essays, to be read to the Tutor once or twice a week.
The Tutor makes his comments and criticisms, and an informal discussion
almost invariably follows, not always restricted to the subject in hand.
Whatever may be said of ‘reading for the Schools’, it is a powerful
factor and incentive in the cultivation of the reading habit, apart
from the literary atmosphere of Oxford, which of itself fosters general
reading for the sake of self-culture. Moreover, the academic year is very
short—less than six months. The Oxford man is therefore obliged to do the
bulk of his reading at home, during the Vacations which make up more than
half the year—a striking contrast to the American or German programmes.
The Tutor’s work and influence is not restricted to the eight weeks of
Term-time, so largely given up to the amenities of life. A certain amount
of well-planned reading is assigned or suggested for the Vacation. This
again, however, is not ‘required reading’. There is no compulsion. Under
such a system the responsibility resting on the individual undergraduate
himself is only too evident, and is keenly felt. The lectures being
purely formal, it is in his College rooms or at home that he does his
reading, his writing, his thinking. It is to the Tutor that he looks
for guidance, advice, and inspiration. It is in ‘the Schools’ that his
scholarship, the results of his private reading, of the weekly essays, of
ripe reflection and solid thinking, are tested. With only two University
examinations in the course of his three or four years at Oxford, the
training of the memory means more than mere memorizing. There is no
opportunity of finishing each Term’s work in succession, and forgetting
during the next what has been painfully acquired in the preceding
Term. It means training the judgement and the powers of reflection,
introducing unity and consistency into the mass of acquired facts and of
contradictory points of view, assimilating it all, making it a part of
one’s self. ‘Reading for the Schools’ has its limitations and its dark
side, but the best products of the tutorial system may well challenge
comparison.

[Sidenote: The teaching staff.]

Each College has its own teaching staff of Tutors and Lecturers. It
is, of course, impossible for the ordinary College Tutor to supply
instruction in all the various fields of knowledge. The difficulty has
been met by appointing members of the instructional force of other
Colleges, and very frequently also University Professors and Lecturers as
College instructors, who in this way become responsible for some part of
the ordinary College tuition. Thus it happens that an instructor may be
lecturing as University Professor or Reader on one day, and on the next
in his capacity as College Lecturer. By means of this closer organization
of the teaching force, together with the system of inter-collegiate
lectures, the tuition supplied by each College is very complete. Many
of the College Tutors have their own special field of work, or are
engaged in research; but most of their time is given in this free
personal intercourse with the students entrusted to them, which, begun
perhaps at a breakfast table, has come to mean much more than the mere
professional interest of a far-away instructor to his wards. If Oxford
has been reproached for a lack of the scientific spirit and the spirit of
research, a very just and adequate reply may be made in the words of a
present-day Oxford Tutor, that ‘the energy which elsewhere goes entirely
to the advancement of knowledge is with them (the Tutors) largely devoted
to the training of character’.

[Sidenote: ‘The Schools.’ University Examinations.]

At American and at most Colonial Universities, the instructors and
lecturers are at the same time the examiners. There is generally a final
examination in each subject or course of lectures at the end of each Term
or semester; no further tests in the particular subject being required
for the University degree. At Oxford the examiners are an entirely
separate body of University officials, chosen directly or indirectly
for a period of two or three years, for the most part from among the
instructional staff—University and College—in each field or subject.
Since the introduction of the examination system in 1805, the constant
addition of new subjects and the growing demands of scholarship have
built up a very complex and intricate system of examination requirements.
These are published each year as the _Examination Statutes_, which
rigidly define the field to be covered in each case, and in which
special books, as well as works for general reading and reference, are
suggested. ‘Reading for the Schools’ has undoubtedly been one of the
most serious obstacles to the growth of Professorial and other advanced
lectures which have no direct bearing on, and which are not intended
to meet, the demands of ‘the Schools’; it has also discouraged the
spirit of research and the demands for training in scientific method.
However, it has the advantage of promoting thoroughness and accuracy as
a result of concentrated and steady, persistent effort along a definite
line of work, _non multa sed multum_. The standard of scholarship is
high. Great stress is laid on ease and facility of expression, on the
ability to form independent judgements, on originality. No one can get
a ‘First’ in the Class Lists on mere hard work and ‘grinding’, or by
a display of erudition and an imposing array of facts. The examination
papers are really a series of essays. The examination generally consists
of written papers, followed some days or weeks later by a ‘viva voce’
examination. In Science, practical laboratory tests are required. The
strain of the examinations—especially in the Final Honour Schools—is
very severe. The examination in ‘Greats’—i. e. in the School of
Literae Humaniores—consists of thirty-three hours of paper-work on six
consecutive days. There is very little opportunity for ‘cramming’, as
physical fitness is a most important factor. It is quite a general
custom for candidates to ‘go down’ for a week’s rest before undergoing
the ordeal of ‘Exam. week’. Informal examinations—‘collections’—are held
in most Colleges at the beginning of each Term by College tutors and
lecturers to test the progress their students have made during Term-time,
as well as the reading they have done or ought to have done during the
Vacation. These examinations, however, in no way directly affect the
student’s final grade. Everything depends on the result of the University
examinations.

[Sidenote: Elective studies.]

Rigid as the examination system appears to be, it is yet very elastic.
Not only has the candidate to choose one of the many avenues leading to
a degree—no one has yet succeeded in calculating the total number of
permutations and combinations which can be made to lead to a degree at
Oxford—but he has abundant opportunity for election from a wide range
of subjects required for the particular ‘School’ chosen. Moreover, all
work for the B.A. degree—lectures, tuition, and examinations—is sharply
divided into ‘Pass’ and ‘Honour’ work, and the course of study pursued
will naturally depend on the student’s own choice.

[Sidenote: University Examinations for the B.A.]

All candidates for an Oxford B.A. degree, apart from satisfying
the residence requirements of three years or more, are obliged to
pass certain University examinations, viz. (1) Responsions, (2) an
Intermediate Examination, as a part of which is generally taken the
examination in Holy Scripture; and (3) a Final Examination. The
University accepts as an equivalent for Responsions the qualifying
examination which every American candidate for a Rhodes Scholarship is
required to pass. There remain for the Rhodes Scholar, therefore, only
the Intermediate (including Holy Scripture) and the Final Examinations.
As the work for these is sharply divided into ‘Pass’ and ‘Honour’, four
alternatives present themselves:—


EXAMINATIONS FOR THE B.A. DEGREE.[58]

  ------------------+------------------------------+----------------------
   _Before or upon  |     _Intermediate._[59]      |      _Final._
      Admission._   |                              |
  ------------------+------------------------------+---------------------
                    |Holy Scripture or substituted |  I. _Pass School._
                    |book (compulsory) and one of  |
                    |the following:—               | Five Groups (see
                    |                              | _Examination
  _Responsions_     | I. _Pass School_ (one only). | Statutes_,
    (compulsory).   |                              | p. 38 ff.).
    (Rhodes         |1. Pass Moderations.          |
     Scholars       |2. Jurisprudence Preliminary, |
     exempt,        |    with ‘Additional Subject’.|
     p. 69.)        |3. Science Preliminary, with  |
                    |    ‘Additional Subject’.     |
                    |                              |
                    |I. 1. Qualifies for all       |
                    |       examinations           |
                    |       in the next column     |
                    |       except II. 8.          |
                    |   2. Qualifies for all       |
                    |       examinations           |
                    |       in the next column     |
                    |       except II. 1 and II. 8.|
                    |   3. Qualifies for all       |
                    |       examinations           |
                    |       in the next column     | _or_
                    |       except II. 1.          |
                    |                              | II. _Honour School._
                    |_or_                          |
                    |                              | 1. English Language
                    | II. _Honour School._         |      and Literature.
                    |                              | 2. Literae Humaniores.
                    |4. Honour Moderations.        | 3. Mathematics.
                    |5. Honour Mathematics, with   | 4. Jurisprudence.
                    |    ‘Additional Subject’.     | 5. Modern History.
                    |                              | 6. Theology.
                    |II. 4. Qualifies for all      | 7. Oriental Studies.
                    |        examinations.         | 8. Natural Science.
                    |    5. Qualifies for all      | 9. Modern Languages.
                    |        examinations          |
                    |        in the next column    |
                    |        except II. 1.         |
  ------------------+------------------------------+---------------------

Advanced degrees for which an Oxford B.A. is a necessary
preliminary:—M.A., B.D., B.M.

Advanced degrees for which an Oxford B.A. is _not_ a necessary
preliminary:—B.Litt., B.Sc., B.C.L.

To take (_a_) the Pass Examination in both the Intermediate and the Final
School;

(_b_) The Pass Examination in the Intermediate and Honours in the Final
School;

(_c_) The Honour Examination in _both_ the Intermediate and the Final
School;

(_d_) The Honour Examination in the Intermediate and the Pass in the
Final School.

While under no compulsion to take any degree, the Rhodes Scholar reading
for the B.A. degree is expected to take Honours at least in the Final
School. That is to say, he is confronted with a choice between the second
and third alternatives just mentioned. To state it more simply, he may
take _either_ the Pass _or_ the Honour Examinations in the Intermediate;
he is expected to take Honours in the Final School.

[Sidenote: The Intermediate Examination, Pass School.]

To take up first of all the Intermediate Examination in the _Pass_
School. This may be _either_ what is known as ‘Pass Moderations’, _or_
the Preliminary Examination in Jurisprudence, _or_ the Preliminary
Examination in Natural Science. Pass Moderations will admit to the Final
Examinations in all of the nine Final Honour Schools except Natural
Science, and is required of those reading for Honours in English Language
and Literature. For all the other Final Schools, except the School of
English Language and Literature, a candidate may qualify by passing _any
one_ of the three Intermediate Examinations just mentioned. A glance
at the chart on p. 77 will perhaps make this a little clearer. The Law
Preliminary Examination is generally taken by men who intend to read
Jurisprudence, frequently also by candidates for Honours in the Modern
History School. The ‘Science Preliminary’ is seldom taken except by men
reading for the Final Examination in Natural Science.

The requirements for these three _Intermediate Pass_ Examinations are as
follows:—

[Sidenote: ‘Pass Mods.’]

‘_Pass Moderations_’ is along the lines of ‘Responsions’, the first
University examination,—but of a more difficult grade. The subjects
are:—(1) translations from certain prescribed Classical authors with
questions on the text and contents, (2) Logic _or_ Algebra and Geometry,
(3) Latin Prose Composition, and (4) Unprepared Translations in Greek
and Latin.

[Sidenote: ‘Law Prelim.’]

The subjects of the Preliminary Examination in Jurisprudence are:—(1)
English Constitutional and Political History after 1485, _or_ European
History, 800-1494; (2) Gaius, _Institutes_, Books I and II to be read in
the _original_, with reference to the history and sources of the law; (3)
Unprepared Latin Translation; (4)(_a_) Logic, or Bacon’s _Novum Organum_,
Book I, _or_ (_b_) a portion of a prescribed Greek, French, or German
author, with unprepared translations in the language offered. Greek is
optional, but a fair knowledge of Latin is required.

[Sidenote: ‘Science Prelim.’]

The subjects of the Preliminary Examination in Natural Science will
depend on the candidate’s choice of subjects for the Final School in
Natural Science. Examinations are held in (1) Mechanics and Physics, (2)
Chemistry, (3) Animal Physiology, (4) Zoology, and (5) Botany.

[Sidenote: ‘Additional Subject.’]

Candidates who take either the Law or the Natural Science Preliminary
Examination are further required to pass in an ‘Additional Subject’,
additional, i. e., to the Stated Subjects for Responsions. The
examinations may be in the nature of translations from (1) a prescribed
Greek or Latin, (2) French, German, or Italian author, or on (3) Book
I of Bacon’s _Novum Organum_, or (4) Elementary Logic. This Additional
Subject may be taken any time after matriculation; except that it must
be taken before the student enters for the Law Preliminary Examination,
and it must be passed before any candidate is admitted to the Final
Examination in Natural Science.

All candidates who have passed in the written papers in any one of
the three Intermediate _Pass_ Examinations must undergo a ‘viva voce’
examination in the subjects offered.

[Sidenote: ‘Honour Mods.’]

Instead of taking one of these three Pass Examinations, the more
ambitious and scholarly _may_ decide to take Honours in the Intermediate
Examination—‘Honour Moderations.’ This examination is of more than
average difficulty and requires thorough and conscientious preparation.
The candidate must be prepared (1) to translate any passage set from
Homer and Virgil and from the orations of Demosthenes and Cicero; (2) he
must choose for special study at least three authors from a list of eight
Greek and eleven Latin authors, and be prepared to answer questions on
the text, contents, style, and literary history. (3) A fairly difficult
Latin Prose Composition is set, also (4) unprepared translations in Greek
and Latin, and (5) a general paper, covering the field of Greek and Latin
grammar, literary criticism, and classical antiquities in general. In
addition there are certain optional subjects, which may mean a better
place in the ‘Class Lists’. Great importance is attached to the literary
character and the style in which the examination papers are written.
There is no ‘viva voce’ examination.

[Sidenote: ‘Honour Maths.’]

Those who wish to escape the Classical part of ‘Honour Moderations’ may
take instead the Intermediate Examination in ‘Honour Mathematics’ and an
‘Additional Subject’, although this is not often done. The subjects to
be offered are (1) Algebra, (2) Trigonometry, (3) Pure and Analytical
Geometry, (4) Differential and Integral Calculus, (5) Elements of
Mechanics of Solids and Fluids.

[Sidenote: Examination in Holy Scripture.]

_All candidates_ for the degree of Bachelor of Arts are required to
pass an examination in Holy Scripture. The subjects of the examination
are (1) the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. John, and (2) _either_ the
subject-matter of the Acts of the Apostles _or_ one of the two Books of
Kings. Those who may make objection on religious grounds are allowed
to substitute the _Phaedo_ of Plato. In either case, a ‘viva voce’
examination follows. This examination in Holy Scripture may be taken
before or with the Intermediate Examination; it must be passed before a
candidate for the B.A. is admitted to the Final Examinations.

Those who enjoy Senior standing are exempted from the Intermediate
Examination—Pass or Honour—altogether, including also the Examination in
Holy Scripture.

[Sidenote: ‘Final Honour Schools.’]

The candidate who has successfully passed the Intermediate Examination,
Pass or Honour, is now prepared to proceed to one of the Final Honour
Schools leading to the Bachelor’s degree. Of these there are nine:—

  1. Literae Humaniores.
  2. Modern History.
  3. Mathematics.
  4. Natural Science.
  5. Jurisprudence.
  6. Theology.
  7. Oriental Languages.
  8. English Language and Literature.
  9. Modern Languages.

The names themselves will convey some general idea of the subjects to be
pursued for each of these ‘Schools’. A few words about the requirements
and work to be done for the Final Examination in each of these nine
Schools may not be amiss here.

[Sidenote: Literae Humaniores.]

‘The Final Classical School or the School of Literae Humaniores is the
oldest, and is admitted on all hands to be the premier School in dignity
and importance.... The course of combined studies for this School is
peculiar to ... Oxford. It is believed to confer a fine mental discipline
and to favour a catholic and genuine culture.’ The general programme of
studies includes the classical languages and literature, Greek and Roman
History, and Philosophy. While textual criticism receives due attention,
it is literary study and treatment that is emphasized. The study of the
classical historians, in the original, forms the basis of the work in
history. In Philosophy, which includes Moral and Political Philosophy and
Logic, the work is based on Plato and Aristotle, but includes also the
general history of Philosophy. The ‘Greats’ man is generally familiar
with the works of Maine, Mill, Green, Bryce, and other authorities. He
is also expected to be acquainted with the outlines of the Theory of
Knowledge from Descartes to Kant, more especially with the philosophy of
Locke, Berkeley, Hume and Kant, and the study of Psychology receives some
attention. The essay work for and with the College Tutor is especially
valuable and a most important part of the classical training received.
The subjects of study range far beyond the limits of classical antiquity.
‘The dominant note of the examination is ... general culture upon a firm
classical basis.’ Quite a number of University prizes and scholarships
are offered in Classics.

[Sidenote: Modern History.]

This is the first in numbers and the second in importance, of the Final
Honour Schools. The reading to be done is very considerable, and a
knowledge of French or German is now compulsory. The subjects of the
examination include the Political and Constitutional History of England,
some special period of European History, Political Science, and Political
Economy. Those who aim at a ‘First’ or ‘Second’ in the Class Lists must
further select one of a list of special subjects to be studied with
reference to the original authorities, e. g. the Crusades, the French
Revolution, &c. Certain other subjects connected with the history of
Literature and Art are optional. Much stress is laid on Geography—for
which special instruction is provided—and on the social and literary
history of the period of European History studied. The courses of
inter-collegiate lectures are particularly well organized and complete
in Modern History, and an adequate teaching force supplies efficient
tuition. There is no special training in historical method except as
this is incidentally developed by independent work under tutorial
supervision. The object of this School, as of most Honour Schools, is
not to produce specialists but to lay the foundations of a liberal
education. To stimulate and encourage historical study the University
offers three prizes—the Stanhope, the Lothian, and the Arnold prizes.
Special attention should be called to the splendid library facilities at
the Bodleian Library, in addition to the various College libraries.

[Sidenote: Mathematics.]

An inter-collegiate association provides a very complete list of
lectures in Mathematics. The subjects of the examination are Pure and
Mixed Mathematics. The ordinary Professorial lectures ‘aim more at the
introduction of students to advanced study than at preparation for
the University examinations’. The Professors and College Tutors and
Lecturers are always prepared to give personal advice and instruction.
The University awards each year a Senior and a Junior Mathematical
Scholarship.

[Sidenote: Natural Science.]

The Natural Science School really embraces seven distinct co-ordinate
subjects or courses of study, viz. (1) Physics, (2) Chemistry, (3) Animal
Physiology, (4) Zoology, (5) Botany, (6) Geology, and (7) Astronomy.

Special work may be done in any one of these subjects, and combinations
of several are possible. The course of study will depend on the
student’s choice of subject or subjects for his final examinations. It
is impossible to go into all details here. Attention ought, however,
to be called to the excellent facilities provided, which are generally
underrated. Because of the heavy expenditure which would be involved
under the distinctly collegiate system, the University undertakes most
of the teaching in Natural Science as well as making provision for the
practical work necessary and incidental thereto. Those who intend to take
up the study of medicine are recommended to select either Physiology or
Chemistry as a preliminary.

Excellent facilities for laboratory work are provided for at the
University Museum. In addition, there are the College laboratories at
Christ Church, Magdalen, Queen’s, New College, Balliol, and Trinity.
Others are in course of construction at Jesus College and at St. John’s
College (Rural Economy and Forest Botany).

In the Radcliffe Library are to be found more than 600 current scientific
periodicals (English and foreign), and some 60,000 volumes dealing
with all branches of scientific work. The University Museum contains
excellent Zoological, Mineralogical, Geological, Palaeontological, and
Petrological Collections. Here are to be found also the Hope Collection
of Anthropoid Animals, the second in importance in the British Empire;
the Hope Library, containing perhaps the most complete collection in
the world on the Arthropoda; the Pitt-Rivers Museum, containing a very
comprehensive Ethnological collection; and also the collections in
Physical Anthropology, Human Anatomy, and Pathology. The facilities both
as regards Working Staff and practical laboratory work deserve special
attention.

[Sidenote: Jurisprudence.]

The curriculum provides for a systematic study of the principles and
history of Law. There is no opportunity for practical work at Oxford—‘the
case-system’ method is not used. On the other hand, the reading to be
done under the direction of the Tutor will afford a very solid foundation
of the general principles of Law before entering on the practical and
special study in chambers or in court. This School is often taken after
Honours have been obtained in some other Final School. The subjects of
the Final Examinations are—(1) Jurisprudence, (2) Roman Law, (3) English
Law (including the Law of Contract, of Succession, Real Property, and
Constitutional Law), (4) History of English Law, and (5) International
Law. The courses of lectures are given and arranged to meet these
requirements.

Every one who wishes to become a Barrister or Solicitor—the two
departments into which the practice of Law is divided in England—must
have kept nine Terms at the Inns of Court, or have served five years
as an articled clerk in some solicitor’s office, and must pass certain
examinations. These are not under the control of the University, though
certain exemptions and concessions are granted to those students who have
passed examinations at the University.

[Sidenote: Theology.]

The subjects of the Final Examination in Theology are—(1) specified
portions of the Holy Scriptures based on a study of the original texts,
including (_a_) the history, religion, and literature of Israel, and
(_b_) the history, theology, and literature of the New Testament; and
(2) the history and doctrine of the Christian Church till 461 A. D.;
this is based mainly on the study of Eusebius and certain Patristic
texts. In addition there are certain optional subjects—Hebrew, Evidences
of Religion, Liturgies, Archaeology and Textual Criticism of the Old
and New Testaments, and certain special subjects. The main subjects of
study for this examination are historical. ‘In addition to this training
in historical method, the School also affords scope for education in
scholarship, in so far as some texts must be read in the original
languages.’ The candidate has a choice of texts in Greek, Latin, and
Hebrew. There is a good course of inter-collegiate lectures, and the
Professorial lectures offer a very wide range of subjects. The library
facilities are excellent. There are a number of other institutions
not directly connected with the University which offer additional
opportunities for study and instruction.

[Sidenote: Oriental Languages.]

The courses given in this School are intended ‘for the most part for the
practical acquisition of the language studied’, and are of special value
to candidates reading for the Indian Civil Service. ‘The general subjects
are Sanskrit, Arabic, Hebrew, and Persian, and History as connected with
the literature of those languages.’ There is a well-equipped library and
museum in the Indian Institute.

[Sidenote: English Language and Literature.]

Though but recently established, the opportunities for special study and
for advanced instruction are well organized, and offer the choice of a
wide range of subjects. The curriculum provides both for the philological
and for the literary study of the English Language. Candidates are
examined in (1) portions of certain prescribed English authors, to be
studied with reference to the forms of the language; as examples of
literature; and in their relation to the history and thought of the
period to which they belong; (2) in the history of the English Language
and Literature, demanding a thorough study of philology as well as of the
history of literary criticism. In addition, the candidate who aims at a
first or second class in the Final Examination must offer one of a list
of nine or ten special subjects in philology and English literature. The
examination requirements demand very wide reading, as well as a thorough
study of some special period of English literature, or of some special
subject in philology.

[Sidenote: Modern Languages.]

Complete courses of instruction are given in French, German, Italian,
Spanish, Russian, and the Scandinavian languages; instructions will also
be provided for in other European languages, if called for. All the
Lecturers and Professors are prepared to give special instruction. A
recognized authority is appointed from time to time to deliver a public
lecture on some subject of modern language or comparative literature.
Candidates reading for this ‘School’ are not required to offer more
than one language. They will be examined in ‘the language as spoken and
written at the present day’, in certain prescribed texts, in the history,
philology, and the literature of the language offered. ‘This will include
the history of criticism and style in prose and verse, and the history,
especially the social history, of the corresponding country or countries
of Europe.’ In addition the candidate has the choice of certain optional
subjects as prescribed in the Examination Statutes.

[Sidenote: Final Pass Schools.]

For the sake of completeness, brief reference may be made to the Final
Examinations in the Pass Schools. The subjects of the examination are
divided into a number of groups, each containing a certain number of
subjects, e. g. one group contains Classical subjects, another Modern
subjects, another Mathematics, &c. Candidates must satisfy the examiners
in three subjects; as a rule not more than two subjects may be taken
from any one Group. The examination in these subjects may be taken
separately, i. e. it is not necessary to take all of them in the same
Term, and no limitations (except by his College) are placed on the
number of the Pass-man’s efforts to pass his ‘Groups’. In the course of
time the University examiners are said to be able to recognize familiar
faces in the Pass Schools with comparative ease—some cynics say, with
ill-concealed pleasure.

[Sidenote: Graduate study.]

The residential feature of the Oxford system, on the one hand, and the
stress laid on culture for its own sake, on a liberal education, on
the other, has not been very favourable to the growth of special or
graduate work. The Oxford life makes heavy demands on the student’s
time. An ideal of culture and scholarship (in the English sense of the
word) will not have much in common with the demands of technical and
professional training, with ‘specialization’ and the scientific spirit.
Conservative as Oxford is, it has not shut its doors to the spirit of the
times. Despite Ruskin, ‘science’ has made decided inroads and is to-day
firmly entrenched in Oxford soil. The new University Professorships and
Lectureships were another sign of the times. The extension and perfecting
of the examination system to meet the new conditions, and the absence of
any demand for ‘research’ work, discouraged the growth and development
of the Professorial system, and most of the Professorships suffered by
atrophy of functions and became part of the larger inter-collegiate
system. This must not be interpreted to mean that all work became
undergraduate in character. No greater mistake could be made. As has
been said, there is no hard and fast line at Oxford where undergraduate
work ends and graduate work begins. But it is true that, apart from the
work in Natural Science and Medicine, Oxford makes little pretence of
teaching method _as method_. By an extension of the tutorial system, it
substitutes the direct personal contact between the Professor and the
student. There are advanced lectures, to be sure, but they are purely
formal. Wherever there has been a demand for it, Professors have always
been ready to organize small classes for special study—on the model of
seminars, or even to accommodate their lectures to the needs of advanced
students. There exists to-day a very substantial framework on which is
being organized an efficient Graduate School. New departments are not
created at Oxford ‘by act of legislature’, nor are they grafted on to the
system. They must be a growth—a natural growth from within.

With the institution of the new ‘Research degrees’ in Letters and
Science[60], a good beginning has been made in the way of a school of
purely post-graduate study. Recently, also, certain endowments for
research have been established or reconstituted. The institution of
‘Research’ Fellowships, as apart from the ordinary teaching Fellowships
held by College Tutors and Lecturers, is but another indication of this
new spirit and of the new demands. Moreover, many College Tutors are
working in special fields or engaged in research, and are always ready to
advise the student or to give special individual instruction.

The most valuable feature in the new system is that ‘the student enjoys
the advantage of being brought into close contact with those who have
a first-hand acquaintance with the department of knowledge to which he
is devoting himself, and are ready to give him the benefit of their
experience in researches similar to his own. Professors and Readers in
the University have gained a new responsibility by being brought into
relations with the most earnest students in their respective branches of
learning.’[61]

But perhaps most important of all for the trained research student is the
inexhaustible material to be found in that treasure-house, the Bodleian
Library, in the Radcliffe and the various special and College libraries,
and in the University Museums.

[Sidenote: ‘Research degrees.’]

These new degrees, Bachelor of Letters and Bachelor in Science, are open
to all Oxford graduates (i. e. those holding an Oxford B.A.), and also
to other students who are twenty-one years of age and who ‘can give
satisfactory evidence of having received a good general education’.
Rhodes Scholars who have taken their Bachelor’s degree at some Colonial
or American University will generally be able to avail themselves of
this latter regulation. All candidates for these degrees in Letters or
Science—and this applies also to those reading for the degree of Bachelor
of Civil Law (see p. 93)—should be sure to provide themselves with the
necessary credentials. They must be prepared to present:—

    1. A certificate of age.

    2. A certificate of degree or degrees already taken.

    3. A detailed statement of work done, or published as a result
    of their special studies.

These credentials should be supplemented by:—

    4. Letters of recommendation from former instructors and
    Professors.

    5. A Catalogue or Register of the candidate’s University or
    College.

    6. Candidates must present some definite subject of study or
    research.

Once admitted to be a candidate for the degree, the candidate’s work will
be under the direction of a Committee of two, one of whom is usually a
Professor, appointed by the Board of the Faculty to which his subject
belongs. In addition to the residence requirement of eight University
Terms (i. e. two years), he must first have ‘satisfied the Board of
Faculty, by examination only, or by submitting a dissertation, which,
if approved, is necessarily followed by a viva voce examination. The
Board may further require the candidate to publish his dissertation or
some part of it.’ Any one who has taken an Oxford B.A. has satisfied the
necessary requirements as to residence for the Research degree, and,
without necessarily residing in the University, he can pursue his special
studies _in absentia_ under the direction of the Committee and proceed to
his degree at his convenience.

[Sidenote: Opportunities for research. Classical studies.]

There are opportunities for research or advanced special work in almost
every field of knowledge, but some of them deserve special mention. It
goes without saying that the student of the Classics, of Comparative
Philology, and of Ancient History will find at Oxford not merely the
technical facilities in the way of instruction, libraries, and museums,
but an atmosphere particularly favourable to the prosecution of his
studies. ‘Every College has one or more classical lecturers on its
staff who have usually made a special study of some branch of classical
learning.’ A glance at the list of Professors and Lecturers for the
Honour School of Literae Humaniores[62] will be sufficient indication and
guarantee of the adequacy and efficiency of the instruction provided.
Most of the Honour lectures are of an advanced character.

The Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum (Arthur J. Evans, D.Litt.) lectures
(generally in Michaelmas Term) on Minoan and Primitive Aegean Culture, or
on other prehistoric subjects. There are also opportunities for special
work in Archaeology and Geography. Courses are given by specialists in
Egyptology, Palaeography, and Numismatics. Dr. Grenfell and Dr. Hunt are
continuing their work on the Oxyrhynchus Papyri.

[Sidenote: Archaeology.]

There is also a special endowment for research—the Craven Fellowship,
with an income of £200 per annum for two years; eight months in each year
must be spent abroad. The British School of Archaeology in Athens offers
(usually every other year) a studentship of £50 to some member of the
University. The library facilities are unexcelled: the Bodleian Library
with more than 600,000 bound volumes of printed works, and some 30,000
bound volumes of manuscripts; the Radcliffe Camera, in which are kept
practically all English books published since 1851, and where most of the
leading periodicals may be consulted; the Ashmolean Library, containing
most of the works on general archaeology; and the various College
libraries; the library of Oriel College containing a special collection
of books on Comparative Philology, and Worcester College Library a
valuable collection of books on Classical Archaeology. The collections
in the Ashmolean Museum present some exceptional opportunities for study
in the following departments:—Prehistoric and Early Dynastic Egypt;
Primitive Anatolia (Hittite Seals, &c.); Primitive Greece and the Aegean;
Greek Vases; Greek and Graeco-Roman Bronzes; Greek Sculpture—collection
of casts; Greek and Roman Inscriptions. There is a collection of coins in
the Bodleian.

The Pitt-Rivers Museum contains a unique ethnological collection, so
arranged and classified as ‘to illustrate so far as possible, by means
of synoptic groups of specimens, the actual or hypothetical origin and
gradual development of the various arts and appliances of mankind, as
well as their geographical distributions’.

[Sidenote: Modern History.]

The opportunities for advanced and special instruction in Modern History
are excellent. There is a good system of inter-collegiate lectures which
will be useful even to advanced students. The Regius Professor holds a
small class ‘specially designed for students working for the B.Litt.
degree’. There are courses in Palaeography and Diplomatic by specialists,
and facilities for doing special or research work in Colonial History.

A series of six lectures is delivered by the Ford Lecturer, elected
annually, upon some particular period or question connected with British
History.

Special work is also offered in Geography.

[Sidenote: Library facilities.]

‘The _Bodleian Library_ and the _Taylorian Library_ of foreign books
are open to all matriculated members of the University upon compliance
with certain conditions as to introduction. Each College also possesses
a library, and books and MSS. in the library of one College can usually
be consulted by members of other Colleges by arrangement with the
Librarian. The Bodleian Library, and some of the College libraries,
contain an immense quantity of MSS. and materials for mediaeval history
which have been imperfectly explored. The Bodleian is also extremely
rich in collections of MSS. illustrating the history of England during
the sixteenth, the seventeenth, and the early part of the eighteenth
century, and many Colleges possess important MSS. of the same period
which have been but little utilized by historians. The Carter MSS. in the
Bodleian are one of the chief sources for the study of Irish History.’
Mention should also be made of the library of the Oxford Architectural
and Historical Society, and of the special collections in the Ashmolean
Museum on Prehistoric Britain (Stone and Bronze and Early Iron Age),
Anglo-Saxon Britain, and of the Renaissance Bronzes and Majolica, and of
the library of the Indian Institute.

[Sidenote: Theology.]

Many of the Honour lectures in _Theology_ are adapted to the needs of
advanced students. Seminar classes are also held in several subjects.
A special University Lectureship in Assyriology has been established;
lectures are given on the bearing of Assyriology upon the Old Testament.
The instructional staff is excellent. Two theological colleges, Mansfield
College (Congregational) and Manchester College (undenominational), are
both well equipped with an efficient staff of lecturers.

[Sidenote: Oriental studies.]

Most of the courses in the School of Oriental Languages are for the
practical acquisition of the languages offered. There are also some
advanced lectures, and all members of the teaching staff are prepared
to give instruction and advice to students taking up any special line
of Oriental studies. There is a very complete collection of works
on Egyptology in the Bodleian Library and in the libraries of the
Ashmolean Museum, of Queen’s College, and of the Indian Institute. ‘The
Indian Institute Library contains about 23,000 volumes intended to
represent very fully the languages, the literature, the religions, the
institutions, the geography, the history, the ethnology, the archaeology,
and the administration of ancient, mediaeval, and modern India.’ Very
considerable opportunities and facilities are here afforded for the study
of Sanskrit, Tamil and Telugu, Persian, Arabic, Turkish, Chinese, and
Burmese. The library contains a collection of 162 Sanskrit and Prākṛit
MSS., and 64 Persian MSS., as well as a large number of maps of official
publications of the Indian Provincial Government. All the leading
Oriental Journals in English, French, and German are kept here. The
Museum of the Indian Institute is a great aid to the historical study of
Indian subjects.

[Sidenote: English Literature.]

Though but very recently established, the work in the Schools of
English Language and Literature and of Modern Languages calls for
special consideration. The facilities for research in the Bodleian, and
especially in the Taylorian Library, are very considerable.

‘The Taylorian Library contains about 40,000 volumes, representing the
languages of Modern Europe, English (Anglo-Saxon, Early English), French,
German, Dutch, Scandinavian, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Modern Greek,
Polish, Bohemian (Czech), Russian, Serbo-Croatian, and Bulgarian. The
chief subjects are the philology and literature (mainly poetry and drama)
of these languages, and historical memoirs and biographies written
in them. The Library is specially strong in the literature of Dante,
Molière, Goethe and Schiller, Cervantes, Lope de Vega, Calderon, Camoëns,
and Old Norse Sagas. The Finch Collection forms a special library of
works on the Fine Arts, written in French, German, Italian, and other
European languages.

A special _Seminar-Library_ contains the leading literary and
philological periodicals on modern European Languages, the books
prescribed for the Honour School of Modern Languages, and a selection of
dictionaries, grammars, and works of reference connected with the study
of modern languages.’

[Sidenote: Natural Science.]

There are also abundant opportunities for research and for special work
in Natural Science. The laboratories in the University Museum, at Christ
Church, Magdalen, Balliol, and Trinity are well equipped. At the Oxford
Museum are laboratories equipped for special study leading to research
work in Physics, Electricity, Chemistry, Comparative Anatomy, Mineralogy,
Geology, Physiology, Human Anatomy, Pathology and Bacteriology, each
under the direct charge of the Professor of the subject. The teaching in
Pathology, Comparative Anatomy, and Physiology is adapted to the needs
of those preparing for Medicine. Special rooms have been set apart for
original research work in experimental Pathology and Bacteriology, in
Pathological Chemistry and Histology.

[Sidenote: Diplomas.]

Special work may also be done along certain lines for which diplomas are
granted by the University. These have been only recently introduced. ‘At
present they are given for a course of work extending over a year or more
in such subjects as Education, Geography, Economics, Engineering and
Mining, Anthropology, and Forestry, the object being to supplement the
ordinary curriculum for the B.A. degree by providing for more special
lines of study.’ There are seminar-classes in Geography and Economics.

[Sidenote: B.C.L.]

The advanced work in Law is of a very special character. Most of the
lectures in Law are intended for those reading for the Jurisprudence
School, so that the candidate for the B.C.L. is thrown largely upon his
own resources. Prof. Vinogradoff lectures on the History of Law and
Comparative Jurisprudence, and also holds a seminar-class along these
lines. But the bulk of the work for the degree must be done in private
under the direction and supervision of the College Tutor. The examination
for the B.C.L. is one of the most difficult University examinations.
It covers a very wide field and the standard required is very high.
Candidates must possess a fair knowledge of Latin, as certain special
subjects in Roman Law are studied in the original. The subjects studied
are concerned in the main with the theoretical side of legal study, with
the general principles and the history of Law.

Students from the Colonies who are intending to enter at one of the Inns
of Court will find no difficulty in keeping their Terms during their
residence at Oxford. The residence requirements at the Inns of Court
merely consist in eating three dinners during each Term.

The library of All Souls—the Codrington Library—contains a very complete
collection of works on Law and the history of Law—Roman, English, and
foreign. The English Law Reports of all periods, as also the principal
American and Colonial Reports, are to be found here.

Several Scholarships are offered by the University for proficiency in
legal studies.

The degree of B.C.L.—like the Research degrees of B.Litt. and B.Sc.—is
open to all who have taken an Oxford B.A., and to persons above
twenty-one years of age who have obtained a degree in Arts or in
Philosophy or in Science in some other University, and who have satisfied
the Board of the Faculty of Law that they will be qualified to pursue an
advanced course of legal study.[63] Honours can be obtained only by those
candidates who at the time of examination have not exceeded twelve Terms
(i. e. three years) from the date of their matriculation. The minimum
residence requirement is eight Terms.

The examination for the B.C.L. includes the following subjects:—

1. Jurisprudence (and Theory of Legislation).

2. Roman Law:—

    (1) The principles of Roman Private Law, as set forth in the
    Institutes of Justinian (to be read in the original).

    (2) One special subject.—_Either_ Ownership and Possessions
    (cf. _Digest_ xli. and xxiii. 1) _or_ Theory of Contract
    generally (cf. _Digest_ xlv. 1).

3. English Law:—

    (1) Real and Personal Property.

    (2) Common Law (including Contracts, Torts, Criminal Law, and
    the Procedure of the High Court).

    (3) Equity (with special reference to Trusts and Partnership).

    (4) One Special Subject to be selected by each Candidate for
    himself from the following list:—

      (_a_) Agency.
      (_b_) Sale.
      (_c_) Easements and Profits-à-prendre.
      (_d_) Specific Performance.
      (_e_) Criminal Law.
      (_f_) Evidence.

4. International Law _or_ the Conflict of Laws.




CHAPTER VII

EXPENSES


The question of Expense, like many other Oxford questions, is very
difficult to discuss within the limits of a general statement. And yet
this has arisen with probably greater frequency than any other single
question since it was announced that the Rhodes Scholarships were to have
an annual value of £300. Is Oxford expensive? How far will £300 carry a
man? Why and how do the various Colleges vary in expensiveness? What are
the necessary expenditures?

In one of its memoranda (U.S.A.) the Rhodes Trust makes the following
statement:—

‘The sum of £300 is no more than is necessary to cover the expenses
of the year, including Vacations as well as Term. A Scholar must not
therefore count on his Scholarship as leaving any margin—least of all in
his first year, in which, owing to unavoidable initial payments, expenses
are heaviest. Experience suggests that a Scholar should start his Oxford
career free from financial embarrassment.’

Mr. Wells, in his chapter on expenses of Oxford Life,[64] discusses
and gives reasons for the various financial demands which the average
student has to meet. Stripped of the discussion, his opinion is, ‘it may
fairly be said that a man who wishes to live like other people, but is
willing to be careful, may be at College for about £160[65] a year, out
of which he can pay for his clothes, travelling, &c., and find himself in
pocket-money.’ But this, of course, implies that he has a home at which
to spend his Vacations, while no allowance is made for travelling in
Vacation.

‘Oxford is emphatically a place for the well-to-do, or those who by their
brains have provided themselves with scholarships and exhibitions.’

‘The whole tradition of the place is against economy.... The world
in general expects Oxford to entertain it, ... and I do not think we
disappoint expectations in this respect.’

‘At the same time ... the cost of an Oxford education cannot be called
high, judged by the standard of what is usually paid for education in
England.’

There is no need for attempting here an explanation of the reasons for
the facts which occasion these conclusions as set forth by Mr. Wells;
but, keeping these statements in mind in connexion with the following
sketch of necessary expenditures, one may readily see the reason for the
statement in the Rhodes Trust’s Memorandum as quoted above.[66]

£300 is a comfortable sum, but it does not leave margins to be wasted in
riotous living or hoarded as a nucleus for a fortune. It will carry the
careful man through the year; but Rhodes evidently thought that in most
cases the Scholars would have some supplementary means—an asset, under
the circumstances, very desirable.

The Rhodes Scholar who expects to live _the year round_ on £300 should
realize at once that he is not to lay out for himself an extravagant
programme. He will have, in fact, to figure closely in order to make this
sum cover his _necessary_ expenses for the whole year.

There exists a considerable difference in the averages of expense
for different Colleges. This statement should not, however, be
misinterpreted. It is _possible_, mathematically, to live at what would
be styled ‘an expensive College’ at a minimum not much greater than that
of a ‘cheap College’ (excepting special arrangements, e. g. Keble and
St. Edmund Hall). But when it comes to practice, the atmosphere of the
Colleges must be taken into consideration.

In order to enjoy the advantages of College life, to get and to give the
best possible, the student should be ready and able to move on a plane
with the average men about him. This does not mean that he shall go with
the most expensive ‘set’ in his College, but he should be able to follow
Rhodes’s famous injunction, ‘Do the comparative.’

Every Oxford Student has sooner or later to draw on his bank account to
meet the following demands:—

Necessary expenses _for every one_ include—

=1. University Expenses.=

1. Matriculation (once only) £3 10_s._

2. University Quarterly Dues, 12_s._ 6_d._ (twelve shillings and sixpence)
per Term (four times per year).

3. Examination Fees (see Table, p. 103).

4. University Degree Fees (see Table, p. 103).

=2. College Expenses.=

1. Entrance, or Matriculation, Fee required in most Colleges—average
£5 (once only) (see Table, p. 105).

2. Caution money. Caution money is a deposit of a certain sum in advance,
required in most Colleges, in order to secure the College against loss
through damage to property or non-payment of College bills. With regard
to _Rhodes Scholars_ each College has made its own arrangements. As these
arrangements stand at present, fourteen Colleges require no deposit; four
have required £10; one has required £20; and one has required £40; while
two do not require caution money of any one. (For the sake of foreign
students, the sums ordinarily required of Commoners have been included
in the Table at the end of this Chapter, col. 2.[67])

Caution money, when required, is, as a rule, paid back, in whole or in
part, when the student ‘goes down’ (finally); in some instances a part
is retained and applied to the expense of ‘keeping name on the College
books’ and towards paying for M.A. degree.

=3. Furnishing.= It is necessary for every student in College to provide
himself with table-linen and table-ware, bed linen, &c. For instance,
one College suggests, ‘2 pair sheets, 3 pillow-cases, 3 table-cloths,
6 towels, toilet-covers, glass-cloths, dusters, set of china (½ doz.);
6 each of small knives, large knives, teaspoons, dessert-spoons,
table-spoons, small forks, large forks, tumblers, ... cruet-stands,
salt-cellars and spoons.’ Kettle, coffee and teapots are also needed.
These items may involve from £7 up, according to the taste of the
individual. Frequently some of them may be purchased from the scout.

The incoming tenant often finds it necessary to purchase or rent several
additions to the furniture which he finds in his rooms (see _Furniture_,
_infra_), and often has to see to numerous repairs—for the furniture is
handed on ‘from generation to generation’.

=4. Tuition.= Under ordinary circumstances undergraduates pay the regular
tuition specified in the following Table, averaging £8 per Term. Research
students are in some cases released from a part of this tuition, but may
have to pay for other tuition (special).

=5. Room-rent.= Rhodes Scholars will spend their first two years at least
_in_ College. (For rental rates, see Table, p. 105.) On an average, rooms
in College cost less rental than ‘licensed lodgings’. (See p. 66.)

=6. Furniture—Rental or Purchase.= It is the custom in Oxford for the
out-going tenant to leave most of his furniture for _sale_ to the
incoming tenant. The College has an assessor who ‘values’ the furniture
each time the room changes occupants. Some Colleges act merely as ‘sales
agents’, the purchase money passing from new to old occupant through
the College offices. In many cases the College _owns_ the furniture
and rents it to the student. Where rental is allowed the cost comes to
about fifteen per cent. of the valuation of the furniture, per year;
that is, about five per cent. is charged for use of the furniture, and
‘depreciation’ is charged at the rate of from five per cent. to ten per
cent. per year.

=7. Battels.= The term ‘battels’ is used in two senses. In its larger
sense it is applied to the Terminal bill which is sent three times per
year by the College to each of its students. In this sense it embraces
all items of current account between College and student (including
University Quarterly dues); College dues; tuition; College (amalgamated)
clubs[68]; room-rent; furniture-rent; ‘establishment charges’ (i.
e. cost of maintaining College plant, &c.); meals; groceries; coal;
lights; laundry; messenger and gate-bills; fines; and all extra charges
(percentages, breakage bills, special fees, &c.).

In its restricted sense ‘battels’ means a weekly statement which covers
dinners in hall—all meals; groceries and supplies for breakfasts,
luncheons, teas and coffee from kitchen, buttery, and common-room; coal
and faggots; messenger and gate fees (i. e. items of consumption and of
special service).

These statements are sent out each week—dinners in hall average
12_s._-14_s._ per week. In Winter Terms coal and faggots average about
4_s._ per week (less in Summer Term). The other items are entirely at
disposal of the individual.

It is _possible_ to keep these weekly bills as low as £1 5_s._, but
this is far below the average. From £12 to £20[69] per Term is a fair
estimate, with moderate living, for these items.

=8. Additional Charges.= There are a certain number (as reference to
_Handbook_, Chap. iii, will show) of not inconsiderable charges, which
might be classed collectively as ‘fixed charges’ were it not that they
vary in different Terms, or as ‘establishment charges’ were it not that
that term differs in its comprehensiveness in different Colleges. In this
class we may collect those charges which are made by each College under
some or all of the following designations.

_Establishment charges_:—Strictly speaking, for maintenance of College
buildings and current expense of the College plant; library fund;
building fund; College dues; porters; bed-making; shoe-cleaning;
percentage charged on kitchen and grocery bills, rates, taxes[70],
increased in direct proportion to totals of other parts of battels which
cover optional items.

=9. Gratuity to College servants.= The Colleges recognize a ‘tip’ to
the scout, and scout’s boy; and small tips to porters, messengers,
boot-cleaners, &c., are customary. In-College students may reckon about
£2-£3 per term for these gratuities.

=10. Amalgamated Clubs.= The membership in College clubs is one of the
‘not compulsory but obligatory’ items in College expenses. Students are
not required to join, but every man who is active in the College life
becomes a member of the Amalgamated Club. Initiation fee averages £2
(paid, of course, _once_ only); Terminal dues average £2, three times per
year (generally included in Terminal battels).

These are what may fairly be considered the _necessary_ items of current
expense, exclusive of University charges, degree fees, the sum which is
laid down as caution money, and investment in furniture, furnishings and
repairs.

The total of Terminal battels will amount, for a man who lives
comfortably without extravagance, to between £40 and £55 per term (three
times per year) according to his College. This is exclusive of books,
clothing, and any ‘not-College’ expenses.

=11. Degree Fees.= Each College charges a fee, varying from £1 1_s._ to
£7, when a student takes a B.A. degree; from £1 1_s._ to £8 4_s._ when
he takes an M.A., &c. (see Table, p. 105). This is exclusive of and in
addition to the degree fee charged by the University.

In addition to these _necessary_ College expenses it may be as well to
have in mind other probable expenses.

=Athletics.= Athletic life, almost universal in Oxford, involves the
purchase of one’s own costumes and outfit. Entrance into various contests
costs small sums ranging from 2_s._ 6_d._ in College tennis tournaments,
to £3 10_s._ before one may enter inter-College boat races.[71] To the
man who is successful in athletics expenditure for ribbons and blazers
involves some outlay, often considerable. Needless to say, such expenses
should be very welcome.

=Clubs (other than the Amalgamated Clubs).= Membership to the Union costs
£1 1_s._ entrance fee, and £1 5_s._ per Term; or life membership may be
commuted at £10 10_s._

The in-College clubs are inexpensive, with a few exceptions. Several
University clubs cost at the rate of about £1 1_s._ per Term; while a few
of the more exclusive clubs are very expensive.

=Subscriptions.= Certain charitable subscriptions, to which most men
give, may average about £1 10_s._ per year.

=Occasional Expenses.= Exceptional expenses, which a man may expect to
meet at least once during his three years, are subscriptions for sending
a College crew to some regatta, which involves from £1 up; and for a
College ball, which will also average about £1.

Rental of a punt or canoe during Summer Term is not a necessity, but it
is a very possible extra, involving another pound or two.

To discuss riding and driving, &c., of course takes us into the realm of
luxuries.

It is useless to deal with optional details; but when all is said and
done, the man who expects to take Oxford as Oxford is, and who, while
not extravagant, is at the same time not inclined to stint himself, must
expect to put between £175 and £200 as a _minimum_ into his six months at
Oxford.[72]

The intricacy and the elastic possibilities of the battel-sheet, together
with the diversity of plans existing in different Colleges, make it
impossible to arrive at accurate comparative figures, but the following
is a fair sample of one Term’s battels.

(For eight weeks.)

                 __________________ COLLEGE.

  _Mr._ _______________________

                    (Summer Term, 1905.)

                                            £   _s._  _d._
  Kitchen and Buttery                      16    2    7½
  Messenger                                 0    1    8
  Postage and Parcels                       0    6    5
  Faggots                                   0    1    0
  Knocking-in (Gate fee)                    0    7    0
  Coals                                     0    8    5½
  Groceries                                 2   17    4
                                          -------------
  Total Weekly Battels                     20    4    6
  Percentage                                1   15    3
  University Dues                           1    5    0
  College Dues and Establishment Charges    5    8    0
  Room Rent                                 5   10    0
  Furniture Rent                            1   10    0
  Rates and Taxes                           1    2    0
  Tuition Fees                              7    7    0
  Glazier, 6_s._; Damage, 3_s._ 4_d._       0    9    4
  Laundress                                 1    7    4
  College Clubs                             2    5    7
  Electric Lighting                             10    0
                                          -------------
                                          £48   14    0


A TABLE OF CERTAIN UNIVERSITY CHARGES.

University Fees.

                                                              £  _s._  _d._
  1. Matriculation                                            3   10    0

  2. Quarterly dues (4 times per year) 12_s._ 6_d._; in       7   10    0
       3 years

  3. On claiming exemption from Responsions or on claiming
       exemption from the First Public Examination
       (Moderations)                                          1    0    0
     On claiming Senior Foreign standing                      2    0    0
       ”    ”    Junior Foreign standing                      1    0    0

  4. Examination Fees—
    [73]First Public Examination (Moderations)
         _a._ Holy Scripture                                  1    0    0
         _b._ For each of the other parts                     2    0    0
       Preliminary Examination in Jurisprudence (Law
         Preliminary)[73]                                     1   10    0
       For any Honour School other than the Schools of
         Mathematics or Natural Science                       3    0    0
       For the Honour School of Mathematics                   2   10    0
          ”          ”          Natural Science—
         (1) In Physics _or_ Chemistry                        3   10    0
         (2) In any other subject                             1    0    0
       Before each examination in Civil Law                   1    1    0
       On admission as a candidate for the Degree of
         Bachelor of Civil Law                                5    0    0
       On _admission_ or _re-admission_ as a Candidate for
         the Degree of Bachelor of Letters or Bachelor of
         Science                                              5    0    0
       On application or re-application for a _Certificate_
         as a Candidate for the Degree of Bachelor of
         Letters or Bachelor of Science                       5    0    0

  5. Degree Fees—
       A. University.
         Final admission to Degree of Bachelor of Arts        7   10    0
         Final admission to Degree of Bachelor of Literature  7   10    0
         Final admission to Degree of Bachelor of Science     7   10    0
         Final admission to Degree of Bachelor of Civil Law   8    0    0
       B. College.
         In addition to the University Degree Fees each College
           requires a fee varying from £1 1_s._ to £8 4_s._ from
           each of its students when he takes a degree. See Table,
           p. 105.[73]

_Note._—For more complete list of examination fees see _Examination
Statutes_ or _Handbook_.


A TABLE OF CERTAIN COLLEGE CHARGES.

The columns in the following table correspond with the numerical
arrangement of ‘College expenses’ above.

The figures in columns 1, 2, 4, 5 and 11 are taken from the seventeenth
(1906) edition of the _Student’s Handbook_.

It is impossible to give exact figures for Furnishings, Furniture,
Battels, Additional Charges, Gratuities, and Amalgamated Clubs (i. e.
items 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 respectively), and therefore they are omitted
from this table.

With regard to caution money (column 2), see ‘2. Caution Money’ above.

  -------------------+-------------+----------+---------+-----------------+
                     |  Entrance   |          |         |                 |
                     |     and     | Caution  |         |                 |
                     |Matriculation|  money   | Tuition |   Room Rent     |
                     |  Fees for   |   for    |per year.|   per year.     |
                     | Commoners.  |Commoners.|         |                 |
  -------------------+-------------+----------+---------+-----------------+
                     |   £   _s._  |     £    |  £ _s._ |                 |
  Balliol            |   5     0   |    21    | 25  0   |£8 up., average  |
                     |             |          |         |  £15            |
  Brasenose          |   5     0   |    25    | 25  4   |£9 up. to £23    |
  Christ Church      |   5     0   |    25    | 24  0   |£6 to £28        |
  Corpus Christi     |     No.     |    30    | 27  0   |£10 to £16       |
  Exeter             |   5     0   |    25    | 22  1   |£10 10_s._ to    |
                     |             |          |         |  £16 16_s._     |
  Hertford           |   5     5   |    30    | 22 10   |£12 to £18       |
  Jesus              |   2     0   |    20    | 21  0   |£8 8_s._ to £15  |
  Keble[74]          |   5     0   |       (Special arrangement.          |
                     |             |        See opposite page.)           |
  Lincoln            |     No.     |    30    | 24  0   |£10 10_s._ to    |
                     |             |          |         |  £16 10_s._     |
  Magdalen           |     No.     |    40    | 24  0   |£10 to £28       |
  Merton             |   1    10   |    30    | 22  1   |£7 to £18 18_s._ |
  New College        |   5     0   |    30    | 24  0   |average under £15|
  Oriel              |   5     0   |    30    | 22 10   |average £12      |
  Pembroke           |   5     0   |    30    | 23  0   |£9 to £15 15_s._ |
  Queen’s[75]        |   5     0   |    30    | 22 10   |£7 10_s._ to £21 |
  St. John’s         |   4     0   |    30    | 22  1   |£8 8_s._ to      |
                     |             |          |         |  £16 16_s._     |
  Trinity            |   5     0   |    30    | 24  0   |£12 to £16       |
  University         |   5     0   |    30    | 25  4   |£6 6_s._ to      |
                     |             |          |         |  £18 18_s._     |
  Wadham             |   5     0   |    30    | 22 10   |£9 to £16 10_s._ |
  Worcester          |   8     5   |    20    | 21  0   |£9 9_s._ to £15  |
  St. Edmund Hall[76]|   3     0   |    14    | 15 15   |£8 to £12        |
                     |             |          |         |                 |
  Non-collegiate.[77]|             |          |         |                 |
  -------------------+-------------+----------+---------+-----------------+

  -------------------+-------------------------+
                     |                         |
                     |      Degree Fees.       |
                     |                         |
                     +------------+------------+
                     |    B.A.    |    M.A.    |
  -------------------+------------+------------+
                     | £ _s._ _d._| £ _s._ _d._|
  Balliol            | 4   4   0  | 6   6   0  |
  Brasenose          | 5   0   0  | 8   0   0  |
  Christ Church      | 3   3   0  | 3   3   0  |
  Corpus Christi     | 2  10   0  | 5   0   0  |
  Exeter             | 4  12   6  | 4   0   0  |
  Hertford           | 5   5   0  | 5   5   0  |
  Jesus              | 3   1   0  | 3   1   0  |
  Keble[74]          | 1   0   0  | 1   0   0  |
  Lincoln            | 1   1   0  | 1   1   0  |
  Magdalen           | 0  17   6  | 1   5   0  |
  Merton             | 2   0   0  | 2   0   0  |
  New College        | 2   2   0  | 2   2   0  |
  Oriel              | 4  10   0  | 5  10   0  |
  Pembroke           | 7   0   0  | 5   0   0  |
  Queen’s[75]        | 5   5   0  | 3   6   0  |
  St. John’s         | 6   7   0  | 6  15   0  |
  Trinity            | 3  16   0  | 6   1   0  |
  University         | 5   0   0  | 6   0   0  |
  Wadham             | 4   4   0  | 8   4   0  |
  Worcester          | 3   1   0  | 6   3   0  |
  St. Edmund Hall[76]| 4   9   0  | 4   9   0  |
                     |            |            |
  Non-collegiate.[77]|            |            |
  -------------------+------------+------------+




CHAPTER VIII

OPPORTUNITIES

THE VALUE OF A RHODES SCHOLARSHIP—QUALIFICATIONS—CHOICE OF A
COLLEGE—CHOICE OF WORK—ADVANTAGES


There are two questions which are of vital importance to every person
who is considering a Rhodes Scholarship, whether Candidate, member of
a Committee of Selection, or a chosen Scholar. What advantages does a
Rhodes Scholarship offer? What opportunities does Oxford offer to a man
who has won the Scholarship?

The ultimate answer to both depends upon the type of man who is chosen;
while two very important factors are the spirit in which the Scholar
accepts his appointment and the course which he chooses to follow at
Oxford.

There can be found no better statement of the qualities which are desired
in the typical Scholar than that which Rhodes himself suggested (see p.
18). In this outline, Rhodes, consciously or unconsciously, epitomized
the qualifications of the best product (in theory at least) of the Oxford
life and system. Naturally, the better the adaptive possibilities of the
material, the better the chance of turning out a finished product of the
desired quality.

A few words may serve to emphasize the comprehensiveness of these
qualifications. Rhodes’s first requirement was that regard should be paid
to ‘literary and scholastic attainments’. However, to this qualification
he gives, in his scheme of units, but three points in ten. He desired
neither ‘bookworms’ nor ‘grinds’; but men with the broad interests of the
student, which lie not alone in intense study of books, but in a wide
humanity and true culture. Rhodes preferred men who, with fixed habits
of work and high scholastic ambitions, at the same time are alive to
the importance of guarding ‘lest our culture separate us from humanity’;
he believed that education consists in giving as well as getting, and
that the danger of too high scholastic aims lies in drawing the scholar
away from active participation in the political and social life of his
fellow students. For this reason, while he insists upon a high standard
of scholarship, he gives seven points in ten to qualifications other than
scholastic.

‘Fondness for, and success in, manly outdoor sports’ ought not to allow
of much misinterpretation. Yet Rhodes Scholars were once advertised
as ‘all athletes’, and there has been disappointment in some quarters
because they are not ‘all athletes’. There are degrees of athleticism.
One may be athletic without being an athlete. And it has happened that
one may be a Rhodes Scholar without being particularly athletic. However,
‘fondness for manly outdoor sports’ is above all a characteristic of
Oxford men. ‘Exercise’ is a part of Oxford life. The athlete has great
advantages in the Oxford system. The man who comes to Oxford without
athletic propensities and without a hearty interest in sports is apt not
only to have a dull time of it, but to find himself in an ‘unhealthy,
enervating atmosphere’. It is not necessary that one be a ‘record’ man
or a ‘star’, but the athletic qualification should be given its proper
significance.

The third qualification resolves itself into honest manhood and
good-fellowship, and is closely linked with the fourth, which insists
upon moral force of character and the qualities of leadership. These
requirements do not mean that one shall play the ‘lion in society’
any more than that he shall attempt to dominate in the activities of
his College. They mean that he shall possess the moral and social
qualifications, the personality that will make him fit into the Oxford
system; it means that he shall be a straightforward, enthusiastic,
‘social animal’; that he shall enjoy, and find interests in, and improve
by, comradeship and mutual friendships. If an Oxford student neglect the
‘social side’ he will have lost some of the best opportunities which
Oxford life affords.

Rhodes on one occasion defined a University education as the ‘education
of rubbing shoulders with every kind of individual and class on
absolutely equal terms’; and it was this education of which he wished the
Rhodes Scholars to partake.

Moral force of character is a qualification which cannot be too much
insisted upon. Cut off from home ties and home influences for three
years, with six months of each spent in travel and among strangers, with
the opportunity and at the same time the necessity to decide nearly
all questions which arise without check and with little counsel, moral
force and will power are not only invaluable, but indispensable assets.
The question of age has here an important bearing. No definite age can
be set as absolutely the best, but the general experience so far would
seem to point to a desirability that the men be mature. By that we
mean that a man should have arrived at a point where his experience,
his knowledge of himself and of men, and his knowledge both of books
and of business, render him capable of forming quick, accurate, and
independent judgements, of choosing his work, of initiating and pursuing
his own plans, of working without a task-master and independent of mere
textbooks; of carrying his plans to fulfilment, and of accomplishing his
work in spite of a multitude of distractions and side interests which
will make constant bids for his attention.

There is, however, danger in choosing too mature a man. He may be so
advanced in his studies or so old in his habits as to find Oxford
unprofitable or uncongenial. He may be so deeply interested in his
definite line of work, or ‘take himself so seriously’, as not to ‘mix’
well. He may be so set in his ways as to be unadaptable to Oxford ways.
There is such a thing as too much self-reliance. The Rhodes Scholar
should have ‘independence of character’ and should have ‘principles’,
but he should not assert an aggressive individuality. He should be able
and ready to get into sympathy with English life and English ideals; he
should remember ‘when in Rome to do as the Romans’, in so far as the
customs of the Romans do not conflict with his principles and ideals; he
should ‘catch on’, be able if necessary to rearrange his wardrobe and
his vocabulary, and to readjust his political and social vision. All this
a man may do without losing one particle of his own local or national
patriotism.

Rhodes’s favourite maxim was ‘do the comparative’. That would perhaps be
his first injunction to Rhodes Scholars. He asked for _men_—the greater
their ability the better; he did not demand the superlative; but he did
object to less than the ‘comparative’ _in any respect_.


Choice of a College.

It must be plainly evident from what has preceded on the subject of
Oxford, that the choice of a College is a matter of very considerable
importance. Although in some ways not of so much consequence to students
from abroad as to Englishmen, yet in others it is even more desirable
that the foreign student be satisfied with his College environment.
An English student, no matter what his College, will probably have a
number of friends and old ‘school-fellows’ in other Colleges. A student
from abroad, an American for instance, will be more limited to chance
acquaintances among the students outside his own College. Moreover, to
the Rhodes Scholar Oxford becomes in a sense ‘home’ during his three
years. And when all points are considered, one’s impressions of Oxford
and of Oxford men—and to that extent of England and Englishmen—are
bound to be influenced predominantly by the character of his immediate
surroundings.

Englishmen are influenced in their choice of a College by several
motives: family associations, ‘school’ traditions, scholastic reputation,
social character, athletic fame. Some men go where their fathers went;
others where their school-fellows go; others to Colleges which are
‘high’ on the river; others to ‘football’ Colleges; others where ‘Honour
men’ are sought; others where they happen to obtain or expect to obtain
‘scholarships’ or ‘exhibitions’; and still others—where they can.

The Rhodes Scholars will not ordinarily be so directly affected by these
considerations, but will be no less inclined to look to the traditions
and history of the College and the character and personnel of its past
and present student body and the ideals which the College represents.
The names on the tutorial list will be of decided interest, especially
to the man who contemplates advanced work; but this consideration should
weigh even more with the student who is going to do undergraduate work
for the reason that in the former case the man who is doing research work
will very possibly work under a ‘Tutor’ outside his College, while nearly
always those doing undergraduate work are under Tutors of the College to
which they belong.

Under the present arrangement a Rhodes Scholar, when appointed, is
to send to Mr. Wylie, along with his credentials (see p. 42), a list
containing the names of several (five or six) Colleges in the order of
his choice. One has no assurance that he will be admitted to the College
of his first choice, as the methods of selection and the limits of
accommodation of individual Colleges, as well as the provision of the
Rhodes Trust that the scholars shall be distributed among the Colleges,
prevent the entrance of large numbers at any one time into any one
College.

Thus it is important that one be careful not only in making his first,
but in making his second, his third, and even his fourth choice. One
should carefully consult what sources of information he can, and be as
familiar as possible with the characters of the Colleges which he names
in his list.[78]

Expense, for instance, may be considered by some. There is some
difference between the cost of living at various Colleges. Yet one should
not let a difference of a few pounds outweigh other considerations which,
were that eliminated, would attract him to other Colleges. The advantages
which one thinks he may obtain from congenial surroundings—the influence
of certain traditions, the presence of certain Tutors—the atmosphere
which is best adapted to one’s disposition and to his work; these should
be the considerations which determine a choice.

It may be of interest to future applicants, in this connexion, to know
that a thick volume of eulogistic letters of recommendation, &c., is not
so highly prized in Oxford as it may seem to be in certain other places.
The facts—all of them—are wanted, in a plain, matter-of-fact, concise
form. But pages of glowing praise are likely to cause first amazement,
then amusement, then suspicion, and sometimes rejection in certain Senior
Common-rooms in Oxford.[79]

[Sidenote: Standing.]

It has been often asked: how may one know whether he is going to obtain
‘Senior or Junior standing or neither’? A positive answer is difficult.
However, any one may at once learn from his own University whether it
is affiliated with Oxford or not, and whether his local standing will
entitle him to Oxford Senior standing.[80]

If not, he may still entertain hopes for senior Standing in case he
has obtained ‘honours’ (e. g. _Phi Beta Kappa_, or _summa cum laude_)
with his degree. The student who cannot qualify for Senior standing may
reasonably expect to obtain Junior standing if he has a degree and can
show a satisfactory record in a satisfactory course.[81]


Choice of Work.

To make the most of his opportunities it is essential that the Rhodes
Scholar shall as early as possible choose the course of study which he
wishes to pursue at Oxford. Owing to the difficulty of adjusting himself
to the Oxford method and system, one is likely, unless he studies the
matter out carefully, to lose much valuable time. As soon as appointed
the Rhodes Scholar should inform himself as quickly and as thoroughly
as possible, from what sources may be available, and further, if
necessary, by correspondence, as to the opportunities and facilities and
the requirements for work in the subject in which he is interested. It
should be borne in mind that Oxford does not draw a sharp line between
‘undergraduate’ and ‘graduate’ study; that reading for the B.A. degree
in an Oxford Honour School is to a large extent ‘specializing’, and that
the work need by no means be a repetition of what one has done elsewhere
in getting his B.A.; that the tutorial system calls for a large amount
of private reading with elastic limitations, with much work during
Vacations; and that this system will require in most cases a radical
readjustment of habits and methods of work.

A brief restatement of courses and combinations of courses which are most
readily open to Rhodes Scholars may simplify this problem to some extent.
Every Rhodes Scholar has before him the choice[82] (1) of reading for a
B.A. in one of the nine Honour Schools; (2) of doing ‘special study’ for
which a Diploma is granted; (3) of doing research work for the Bachelor’s
degree in Letters or Science; or (4) of taking the course for the degree
of Bachelor of Civil Law. In some cases two of these courses may be
combined.

The fact that more than half of the Rhodes Scholars now in residence,
after having taken their B.A.’s in American or Colonial Universities,
are reading in the Honour Schools, is evidence sufficient to show that
they are able to find courses leading to the B.A. in Oxford which are
considerably more than mere repetitions or reviews of their former
courses. The Classical, the History, and the Law courses have proved
especially available.

Most Rhodes Scholars, in case they do not receive Senior standing
(which permits them to read directly for their Final Schools), find it
advisable to take _Pass_ Moderations or the Preliminary Examination in
Jurisprudence (‘Law Prelim.,’ see p. 79) rather than Honour Moderations,
so as to begin reading for Final Schools as soon as possible.

Most Rhodes Scholars will require their full three years for doing
an Honour School, unless beginning with Senior standing or giving up
several Vacations to hard study. Students with Senior standing, or, in
some cases, with Junior standing, will be able to finish their work
for the B.A. at the end of the second year, leaving the third free for
special study (e. g. for a Diploma, or for a B.Sc. or B.Litt. or B.C.L.).
However, where a man wishes to take his Honour examinations at the end of
his second year, he must, unless he be already well up in his subject, be
ready at once for hard and consistent work.

It may be found very practicable and profitable to combine studies
leading to a Diploma with a course of reading for the B.A.

For the advantageous pursuit of research work for the degrees B.Sc. or
B.Litt., it is necessary that the student fix upon some clearly defined
and limited subject for original work, and it will be a great advantage
for him to have already become acquainted with research methods in his
home University. The research student at Oxford is thrown largely upon
his own resources as to method. The guidance and advice of Professors
and Tutors who are specialists will be of great value; but this is in
most cases limited to a few hours per Term of private audience. If the
student is well up in his subject he may generally complete the work for
a B.Litt. or a B.Sc. degree in two years. Or, if he has done special work
in preparing for an Honour School during his first two years, he may be
able to obtain a B.Litt. or B.Sc. at the end of his third year.

[Sidenote: B.C.L.]

The work for the advanced degree of Bachelor of Civil Law covers a much
wider range of studies than is required at most American Law Schools;
but it is not so practical. Special attention is paid to the study
of Roman Law, a fair knowledge of Latin being required. The course
of study includes the general field of English Law, Jurisprudence,
and International Law. The work in English Law will prove a valuable
foundation for those intending to practise in American Courts. Most
of the work for the degree must, however, be done in private. There
are lectures, to be sure, and there is the weekly conference for an
hour or two with the Tutor, during the eight weeks of Term. It is very
advisable, therefore, that Rhodes Scholars who have had only a general
course in Law or who have had no legal training whatever before coming
to Oxford, should read for the Bachelor’s degree in the Honour School
of Jurisprudence, and not to attempt to enter upon the more advanced
work for the B.C.L. immediately. Practically all the work done for the
B.A. degree in Jurisprudence will be of value in reading for the B.C.L.
degree, which may possibly be taken during the third year by the more
ambitious students. Such a course of study, however, will leave the
Rhodes Scholar with little or no time for travel during his Vacations. It
will mean close, persistent, hard work throughout the entire three years,
during Term-time and during most of the Vacations.

Attention ought to be called to the opportunities offered in Science and
Medicine at Oxford, which seem to be generally underrated. The laboratory
facilities are in most cases adequate and the staff of instruction very
large and efficient.[83] The long residence requirement for the degree in
Medicine makes it impossible for the Rhodes Scholar who intends to stay
at Oxford for three years only to take this degree.

It is not necessary to repeat here what has been said about the value of
an Oxford education from the broader point of view of the Oxford life
sketched in a previous chapter. Add to the many opportunities for broad
culture and social training the opportunity of meeting Rhodes Scholars
from all parts of the British Empire, the United States, and Germany. The
friendships formed will prove not the least of the many opportunities
and the pleasant experiences of the three years at Oxford. The student,
in whatever sphere his interests lie, will find golden opportunities,
not so much for getting the most out of life, but for putting the most
into it, and enriching it, with wise experience, pleasant memories,
and high ideals. ‘The embryo doctor, lawyer, journalist, clergyman,
politician, who aims at the highest can by the help of this bequest
spend three additional years, unoppressed by anxious care, in laying
broadly and firmly the intellectual basis on which his professional work
is to be done.’ For the benefit of those who are thinking of entering
the public service of their country, the words of Mr. Harris, United
States Commissioner of Education, may be quoted here:—‘We must educate
hundreds of our scholars and politicians in studies of Jurisprudence
and International Law; we must have a corps of trained specialists who
know the minute details of each great nation’s past history and present
achievements—Great Britain, Germany, France, Russia, Austria, Italy,
Spain, Holland, Belgium, and the Scandinavian countries. The Rhodes
bequest is the most timely of gifts for higher education, because it
gives opportunity to begin this education of that class of our population
which will furnish our consulates, our home offices, and our embassies
with attachés. Out of the most successful of these will come by and by
our foreign ministers and our home experts in diplomacy.

‘England is the best place in which to begin this work. The excellence
of the University of Oxford is without doubt the training of the ready
gentleman who cannot be pushed off his feet by an attack upon the
weaknesses of his personality. His training at Oxford gives him that
secure self-possession and self-respect which commands the respect of
his fellows. Our American students need have no fear that they will lose
their nationality at Oxford, for they will find the English ideal of a
gentleman exactly fitted for Anglo-Saxons everywhere. The more perfectly
they accept its training in this regard the more ready they will be for
the great work of extending our American influence in the councils of the
world.’

Stubbs said, in his inaugural address as Professor of History at Oxford,
‘We want to train not merely students but citizens; and citizens of the
great communities—the Church and the civilized world; to be fitted not
for criticism or for authority in matters of memory, but for action.’
Oxford has long been the training-school for the great men of England,
but she has of late years made it more and more her endeavour to conform
to this ideal—that is, to train men for action. Whatever the defects
of the system, it nevertheless remains true that the Oxford student is
brought under the influence of the same scholastic training which the
rulers of the British Empire have enjoyed; and he not only sees and feels
the working of that machinery, but he is, as an undergraduate, intimately
associated with the men who will within the next half-century lead in
English life and thought.

Add to these opportunities and influences the advantages of travel
in England and on the Continent during the half-year of Vacation, of
becoming familiar with modern European languages, of studying political
thought, the Press and public opinion, the institutions and customs and
characteristics of the different countries, of getting a first-hand
acquaintance with contemporary Europe (not to mention the advantages for
the study of history and art), and of looking at American and Colonial
affairs through European spectacles. The Japanese are sending students
in great numbers from one country to another, students who observe and
compare and test—and they are choosing and adopting the best which they
find in each. Why should not other nations learn more from one another?
Wider experience and wider knowledge mean broader and saner judgements,
a truer perspective, a clearer vision, a juster and more sympathetic
appreciation of the achievements, the methods, the objects, and the
ideals of the contemporary nations, together with a better understanding
of one’s own country and a better equipment for and a higher ideal of the
duties and possibilities of citizenship.




APPENDICES




APPENDIX I

LIST OF RHODES SCHOLARS

See also chart on p. 29.


              Elected 1903 (this group have ‘gone down’).

  _Appointed from_  _Name of       _Previous    _College      _Course
                     Scholar._     Education.   at Oxford._  at Oxford._
                                    Degree_

  SOUTH AFRICA

  Natal             A. L. de       Cape Univ.    Oriel      Jurisprud.[84]
                    Charmoy        (Intermed.
                                    Exam.)

  Rhodesia          C. T. Blakeway Cape Univ.,   Oriel      Jurisprud.
                                     B.A.                   & B.C.L.[84]

  Rhodesia          A. Bissett     St. George’s  Wadham     ——
                                   School,
                                   Bulawayo

  Diocesan College, C. Brooke      Diocesan      Keble      ‘Groups.’
    Rondebosch                     Coll.,
                                   Rondebosch

  South African     P. T. Lewis    South         Balliol    Jurisprud.
    College                        African Coll.

  St. Andrew’s      C. Gardner     St. Andrew’s  Trinity    Jurisprud.
    Coll.,                         Coll.,
    Grahamstown                    Grahamstown

  Victorian         W. Macmillan   Victorian     Merton     History.
    College,                       Coll.,
    Stellenbosch                   Stellenbosch

  GERMANY

                    T. Erbe        Göttingen,    Merton     B. Litt.
                                   Ph.D.

                    von Lindemer   Pforta        Exeter     Law.
                                   Gymnasium

                    von Müller     Pforta        Oriel      Law.
                                   Gymnasium

                    von Schweinitz Wilhelms-     Balliol    Law.
                                   gymnasium,
                                   Cassel

                    Count Hélie    Berlin and    Magdalen   Law.
                    Talleyrand-    Breslau
                    Périgord

                              Elected 1904.

  AUSTRALASIA

  New South Wales   W. A. Barton   Sydney Univ., Magdalen   Jurisprud.[84]
                                   B.A.

  Queensland        A. S. Roe      Sydney Univ.  Balliol    Nat. Sci. &
                                                            Medicine.

  South Australia   N. W. Jolly    Adelaide      Balliol    Nat. Sci.[84] &
                                   Univ., B.Sc.             Forestry.[84]

  Victoria          J. C. V. Behan Melbourne     Hertford   Jurisprud.[84]
                                   Univ., M.A.,             & B.C.L.[84]
                                   LL.B.

  Western Australia J. L. Walker   High School,  Trinity    Jurisprud.
                                   Perth, W.
                                   Australia

  Tasmania          L. N. Morrison Univ. of      St. John’s Groups.
                                   Tasmania, B.A.

  New Zealand       J. A. Thompson Univ. of New  St. John’s Nat. Sci.[84]
                                   Zealand, B.Sc.

  BERMUDA

                    H. C. Cox      Bromsgrove    Exeter     History.
                                   School

  CANADA

  British Columbia  A. W.          Vancouver     Hertford   Medicine.
                    Donaldson      Coll.

  Manitoba          J. Maclean     Manitoba      Worcester  Lit. Hum.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  N. W. Territory   R. V. Bellamy  McMaster      Pembroke   Dipl.
                                   Univ., B.A.              Econ.[84]

  Nova Scotia       G. Stairs      Dalhousie     New Coll.  History,[84]
                                   Univ., B.A.              B.C.L.

  Ontario           E. R. Paterson Toronto       Balliol    Lit. Hum.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  Prince Edward     W. E. Cameron  Laval Univ.   St. John’s Lit. Hum.
    Island                         (Quebec), B.A.

  New Brunswick     C. E. Martin   Univ. of New  Balliol    History.
                                   Brunswick, B.A.

  Quebec (1)        H. J. Rose     McGill Univ., Balliol    Lit. Hum.
                                   B.A.

  Quebec (2)        J. Archibald   McGill Univ., New Coll.  Lit. Hum.[84]
                                   B.A.

  JAMAICA

                    R. N. Murray   Jamaica Coll. Worcester  Math.

  NEWFOUNDLAND

                    Sydney Herbert St.           Hertford   Jurisprud.
                                   Bonaventure’s
                                   Coll.

  SOUTH AFRICA

  Diocesan College, N. E. Howe     Diocesan      Oriel      Jurisprud.
    Rondebosch      Browne         Coll.,
                                   Rondebosch

  Victorian         C. C. Jarvis   Victorian     Wadham     Jurisprud.
    College,                       Coll.,
    Stellenbosch                   Stellenbosch

  St. Andrew’s      W. W. Hoskin   St. Andrew’s  Trinity    Jurisprud.
    Coll.,                         Coll.,
    Grahamstown                    Grahamstown

  Natal             J. J. L.       Cape Univ.,   Keble      B.C.L.
                    Sisson         B.A.

  Rhodesia          A. G. Helm     School for    Worcester  Jurisprud.
                                   Sons of
                                   Missionaries,
                                   Blackheath
  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

  Alabama           J. H.          Univ. of      Queen’s    History.
                    Kirkpatrick    Alabama,
                                   A.B., A.M.

  Arkansas          N. Carothers   Univ. of      Pembroke   Dipl. Econ.
                                   Arkansas, A.B.

  California        W. Crittenden  Univ. of      Trinity    Jurisprud.[84]
                                   California,
                                   A.B.

  Colorado          S. K. Hornbeck Univ. of      Ch. Ch.    History.
                                   Denver, A.B.

  Connecticut       P. Nixon       Wesleyan      Balliol    B.Litt.
                                   Univ. (Conn.),
                                   A.B.

  Delaware          C. W. Bush     Delaware      B. N. C.   Jurisprud.
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Georgia           R. P. Brooks   Univ. of      B. N. C.   History.
                                   Georgia, A.B.

  Idaho             L. Gipson      Univ. of      Lincoln    History.
                                   Idaho, A.B.

  Illinois          R. L. Henry    Univ. of      Worcester  B.C.L.
                                   Chicago, Ph.B.

  Indiana           G. E. Hamilton Earlham Coll. Pembroke   History.

  Iowa              J. G. Walleser Iowa Coll.,   Oriel      Eng. Lit.
                                   A.B.

  Kansas            E. W. Murray   Univ. of      St. John’s B.Litt.
                                   Kansas, A.B.

  Kentucky          Clarke Tandy   Kentucky      Exeter     History.
                                   State Coll.,
                                   A.B.

  Louisiana         A. K. Read[85] Louisiana     Ch. Ch.    B.Litt.
                                   State Univ.,
                                   A.B.

  Maine             D. R. Porter   Bowdoin       Trinity    History.[84]

  Maryland          P. Kieffer     Franklin and  Oriel      B.C.L.
                                   Marshall
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Massachusetts     F. Fobes       Harvard, A.B. Balliol    B.Litt.

  Michigan          W. L. Sperry   Olivet Coll.  Queen’s    Theology.
                                   (Mich.), A.B.

  Minnesota         B. B. Wallace  Macalaster    Pembroke   History.
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Missouri          R. E. Blodgett Univ. of      Wadham     B.A.
                                   Missouri

  Montana           G. E. Barnes   Univ. of      Ch. Ch.    Theology
                                   Montana, A.B.

  Nebraska          R. H. Coon     Grand Island  Lincoln    Lit. Hum.
                                   Coll. (Neb.),
                                   A.B.

  New Hampshire     J. A. Brown    Dartmouth,    New Coll.  B.Sc.[84]
                                   A.B., A.M.

  New Jersey        B. Price       Princeton,    Wadham     Jurisprud.
                                   A.B.

  New York          W. E. Schutt   Cornell       B. N. C.   Jurisprud.

  North Carolina    J. H. Winston  Univ. of      Ch. Ch.    Jurisprud.
                                   North
                                   Carolina, A.B.

  North Dakota      H. A. Hinds    Univ. of      Queen’s    Nat. Sci.[84]
                                   North Dakota

  Ohio              G. C. Vincent  Westminster   Queen’s    Lit. Hum.
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Oklahoma          W. L. Kendall  Univ. of      B. N. C.   B.C.L.
                                   Oklahoma, A.B.

  Oregon            H. E. Densmore Univ. of      University B.Litt.
                                   Oregon, A.B.

  Pennsylvania      T. E. Robins   Pennsylvania, Ch. Ch.    History.
                                   A.B.

  Rhode Island      R. H. Bevan    Brown, A.B.   Worcester  B.C.L.[84]

  South Carolina    W. H.          Univ. of      Ch. Ch.    B.Litt.
                    Verner[85]     South Carolina,
                                   A.B., A.M.

  South Dakota      P. M. Young    Univ. of      Oriel      Jurisprud.
                                   South Dakota,
                                   A.B.

  Tennessee         J. Tigert      Vanderbilt,   Pembroke   Jurisprud.
                                   A.B.

  Texas             S. R. Ashby    Univ. of      Merton     Eng. Lit.
                                   Texas, A.B.

  Utah              E. Jacobson    Univ. of      Exeter     Mod. Langs.
                                   Utah, A.B.

  Vermont           J. C.          Univ. of      Wadham     Jurisprud.
                    Sherburne      Vermont, A.B.

  Virginia          W. A. Fleet    Univ. of      Magdalen   Lit. Hum.
                                   Virginia,
                                   A.B., A.M.

  Washington        J. N. Johanson Univ. of      Exeter     B.Litt.
                                   Washington,
                                   A.B.

  West Virginia     C. F. Tucker   Univ. of W.   St. John’s Eng. Lit.,[84]
                    Brooke         Virginia,                B.Litt.
                                   A.B., A.M.

  Wisconsin         R. F. Scholz   Univ. of      Worcester  B.Litt.
                                   Wisconsin,
                                   A.B., A.M.

  Wyoming           H. G. Merriam  Univ. of      Lincoln    Eng. Lit.
                                   Wyoming, A.B.

  GERMANY

                    W. von Mohl    Pforta        New Coll.  Law and Econ.
                    [86]           Gymnasium

                    C. Brinckman   Freiburg and  Queen’s    B.Litt.
                    [86]           Göttingen

                    W. von         Jena          University Law and Econ.
                    Helldorf[86]   Gymnasium

                    W. Goebel[86]  Bonn and      St. John’s Dipl. Econ.[84]
                                   Freiburg

                    W. Drechsler   Berlin, Ph.D. Worcester  B.Litt.
                    [86]

                              Elected 1905.

  AUSTRALASIA

  New South Wales   P. H. Rogers   Sydney, B.A.  Worcester  B.C.L.

  New Zealand       P. W.          New Zealand   Trinity    Nat. Sci.
                    Robertson      Univ., M.A.

  Queensland        N. Leslie      Brisbane      Balliol    Lit. Hum.
                                   Grammar School

  South Australia   R. L. Robinson Adelaide      Magdalen   Nat. Sci. &
                                   Univ., B.Sc.             Forestry.

  Tasmania          J. Orr         Hobart Univ.  Balliol    Hon. Mods.

  Victoria          H. Sutton      Melbourne     New Coll.  B.Sc.
                                   Univ., M.D.,
                                   Ch.B.

  West Australia    P. H. Harper   Guildford     Oriel      Nat. Sci.
                                   Grammar School

  BERMUDA

                    A. J. Motyer   Mt. Allison   Ch. Ch.    Nat. Sci.
                                   Univ. (New
                                   Brunswick), B.A.

  CANADA

  British Columbia  I. Rubinowitz  McGill, B.A.  Queen’s    B.C.L.

  Manitoba          W. J. Rose     Manitoba      Magdalen   Lit. Hum.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  New Brunswick     F. P. Day      Mt. Allison   Ch. Ch.    Eng. Lit.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  Nova Scotia       R. E. Bates    Acadia Univ., Merton     Eng. Lit.
                                   B.A., and
                                   Harvard, B.A.

  Ontario           J. M.          Queen’s Univ. Balliol    Lit. Hum.
                    Macdonnell     (Kingston), M.A.

  Prince Edward     L. Brehaut     Dalhousie     University Lit. Hum.
    Island                         Univ., B.A.

  Quebec            T. E. Papineau McGill, B.A.  B. N. C.   Jurisprud.

  JAMAICA

                    R. L.          Exeter        Ch. Ch.    Mathematics.
                    Nosworthy      School (Eng.)

  NEWFOUNDLAND

                    H. Bond        Methodist     St. John’s Nat. Sci.
                                   Coll. (St.
                                   John’s)

  SOUTH AFRICA

  Natal             L. Forder      St. Charles’  Hertford   Jurisprud.
                                   Coll.,
                                   Pietermaritzburg

  Rhodesia (1)      N. W. Milton   Marlborough   University History.
                                   Coll. (Eng.)

  Rhodesia (2)      C. P.          St. George’s  Pembroke   Nat. Sci.
                    Devitt[86]     School
                                   (Bulawayo)

  Diocesan          C. F.          Diocesan      Exeter     Nat. Sci.
    College,        Cranswick      Coll.,
    Rondebosch                     Rondebosch

  St. Andrew’s      W. K. Flemmer  St. Andrew’s  Trinity    Nat. Sci.
    Coll.,                         Coll.,
    Grahamstown                    Grahamstown

  S. African        E. Stanford    S. African    New Coll.  Jurisprud.
    College                        Coll.

  Victorian         P. le Fras     Victoria      Pembroke   Nat. Sci.
    College,        Nortje         Coll.,
    Stellenbosch                   Stellenbosch

  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

  California        Hugh A. Moran  Leland        Wadham     Theology.
                                   Stanford, A.B.

  Colorado          G. A. Whitely  Univ. of      Merton     Jurisprud.
                                   Colorado, A.B.

  Connecticut       A. M. Stevens  Yale, A.B.    Balliol    Eng. Lit.

  Delaware          H. R. Isaacs   Dickenson     Exeter     B.C.L.
                                   (Penn.), A.B.

  Florida           E. W. Buckholz Florida State Pembroke   Lit. Hum.
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Georgia           T. H. Wade     Emory Coll.,  Exeter     Eng. Lit.
                                   A.B.

  Idaho             C. H. Foster   Univ. of      B. N. C.   Eng. Lit.
                                   Idaho, A.B.

  Illinois          N. E. Ensign   McKendree     St. Edmund Math.
                                   Coll., A.B.   Hall

  Indiana           F. Aydelotte   Indiana       B. N. C.   Eng. Lit.
                                   Univ., A.B.,
                                   Harvard, A.M.

  Iowa              J. van der Zee Univ. of      Merton     History.
                                   Iowa, A.B.

  Kansas            F. M. Mohler   Washburn      St. John’s Theology.
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Kentucky          W. H. Branham  Georgetown    Queen’s    Mod. Lang.
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Louisiana         R. C. Many     Tulane        Queen’s    Lit. Hum.
                                   Univ., A.B.

  Maine             H. W. Soule    Colby         Worcester  Jurisprud.
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Maryland          E. M.          Princeton,    Oriel      Medicine.
                    Armstrong      B.A.

  Massachusetts     R. K. Hack     William’s     Oriel      B.Litt.
                                   Coll.
                                   (Mass.), A.B.

  Michigan          R. C. Platt    Albion Coll.  Hertford   Eng. Lit.
                                   (Mich.), A.B.

  Minnesota         H. S. Mitchell Univ. of      New        B.C.L.
                                   Minnesota, A.B.

  Mississippi       E. J. Ford     Univ. of      Ch. Ch.    Jurisprud.
                                   Mississippi

  Missouri          S. E. Eliot    Washington    Hertford   Theology.
                                   Univ., A.B.

  Nebraska          A. H. Marsh    Univ. of      Keble      Theology.
                                   Nebraska, A.B.

  New Hampshire     W. W. Thayer   Harvard, A.B. Magdalen   History.

  New Jersey        P. L.          Westminster   Queen’s    Lit. Hum.
                    Alexander      Coll., A.B.,
                                   Princeton, B.A.

  New Mexico        T. S. Bell     Univ. of New  Lincoln    B.C.L.
                                   Mexico, A.B.

  New York          H. C. Willard  Hobart        University History.
                                   Coll., A.B.,
                                   Cornell, A.M.

  North Carolina    H. Trantham    Wake Forest   Ch. Ch.    Lit. Hum.
                                   Coll., A.B.,
                                   A.M.

  Ohio              C. R. Alburn   Western       St. John’s B.C.L.
                                   Reserve, A.B.

  Oklahoma          C. D. Mahaffie Kingfisher    St. John’s B.C.L.
                                   Coll.
                                   (Oklahoma), A.B.

  Pennsylvania      J. N.          Franklin and  Oriel      B.Litt.
                    Schaeffer      Marshall
                                   Coll., A.B.

  Rhode Island      L. W.          Brown, A.B.   Worcester  B.Sc.
                    Cronkhite

  South Carolina    E. S. Towles   Charleston    Magdalen   Lit. Hum.
                                   Coll., B.A.,
                                   M.A.

  Tennessee         B. E. Schmidt  Univ. of      Merton     History.
                                   Tennessee, A.B.

  Texas             H. P.          Univ. of      Balliol    Jurisprud.
                    Steger[86]     Texas, A.B.

  Vermont           H. H. Holt     Middlebury    Exeter     History.
                                   Coll. (Ver.),
                                   A.B.

  Virginia          B. D. Tucker   Univ. of      Ch. Ch.    Theology.
                                   Virginia, A.B.

  Washington        L. J.          Univ. of      Lincoln    Lit. Hum.
                    Railsback      Washington

  West Virginia     E. R. Lloyd    Ohio Wesleyan Wadham     Lit. Hum.
                                   Univ., A.B.

  Wisconsin         A. E. Rollins  Lawrence      Worcester  Lit. Hum.
                                   Univ., A.B.

  GERMANY

                    H. von         Munich,       Ch. Ch.    Dipl. Econ.
                    Frantzius      Leipsic,
                                   Konigsberg

                    W. Haberland   Heidelberg    Lincoln    History and
                                                            Law.

                    E. von der     Munich        Hertford   Dipl. Econ.
                    Lühe

                    L. von Krosigk Rossleben     Oriel      Dipl. Econ.

                    K. Roediger    Göttingen     Trinity    Dipl. Econ.

                              Elected 1906.

  AUSTRALASIA

  N. S. Wales       M. L.          Sydney Univ., Balliol    Jurisprud.
                    MacCallum      B.A.

  New Zealand       P. A.          Otago Univ.,  St. John’s Nat. Sci.
                    Farquharson    M.Sc.

  Queensland        H. L. Harvey   Boys’ Grammar Oriel      Jurisprud.
                                   School,
                                   Marlborough

  South Australia   W. R. Reynell  Adelaide      Balliol    Nat. Sci.
                                   Univ.

  Tasmania          T. Dunbabin    Univ. of      C. C. C.   Lit. Hum.
                                   Tasmania, B.A.

  Victoria          J. A. Seitz    Melbourne     Merton     Math.
                                   Univ., B.C.E.

  West Australia    A. Juett       Christian     B. N. C.   Nat. Sci.
                                   Brothers’
                                   Coll., Perth

  BERMUDA

                    E. Eardley-    International Worcester  Lit. Hum.
                    Smith          Coll.
                                   (Hampstead)

  CANADA

  British Columbia  H. E. Bray     Toronto       B. N. C.   History.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  Manitoba          S. E. Beech    Manitoba      Queen’s    Nat. Sci.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  New Brunswick     R. St. J.      New Brunswick Oriel      B.C.L.
                    Freeze         Univ., B.A.

  Nova Scotia       A. Moxon       Dalhousie     New        Jurisprud.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  North W.          A. M. Bothwell Queen’s Univ. Trinity    History.
    Territory                      (Kingston),
                                   M.A.

  Ontario           R. C. Reade    Toronto       New        Lit. Hum.
                                   Univ., B.A.

  Prince Edward     A. G. Cameron  Queen’s Univ. Balliol    Medicine.
    Island                         (Kingston),
                                   B.A.

  Quebec            A. R. Macleod  McGill, B.A.  Balliol    Hon. Mods.

  JAMAICA

                    H. E. Wortley  Jamaica Coll. Exeter     Theology.

  NEWFOUNDLAND

                    J. J. Penny    St.           Hertford   Lit. Hum.
                                   Bonaventure’s
                                   Coll.

  SOUTH AFRICA

  Natal             T. B. Horwood  Maritzburg    Ch. Ch.    Lit. Hum.
                                   Coll.

  S. African        V. A. Lewis    Cape Univ.,   New        Jurisprud.
    College                        B.A.

  St. Andrew’s      R. H.          St. Andrew’s  Trinity    Jurisprud.
    Coll.,          Williamson     Coll.,
    Grahamstown                    Grahamstown

  Victorian         J. V. Brink    Cape Univ.,   University Jurisprud.
    College,                       B.A.
    Stellenbosch

  Rondebosch        W. I. Perrott  Rondebosch    Worcester  Nat. Sci.

  GERMANY

                    G. von         Munich        Ch. Ch.    Dipl. Econ.
                    Diergardt

                    Baron W. von   Munich        New        Dipl. Econ.
                    Sell

                    H. von         Kreutzgasse   St. John’s Dipl. Econ.
                    Veltheim       Gymnasium,
                                   Cologne

                    K. von         Pforta        Balliol    Law.
                    Holtzbrinck    Gymnasium

                    E. Stadler     Strassburg,   Magdalen   Eng. Lit.
                                   Ph.D.

Dr. Parkin’s Report of November, 1906,[87] showed Distribution among the
colleges (of Scholars then in residence):—

  Balliol           17
  Christ Church     13
  Worcester         13
  Oriel             11
  St. John’s        11
  New College       10
  Brasenose          9
  Exeter             9
  Queen’s            9
  Trinity            9
  Hertford           8
  Pembroke           8
  Magdalen           7
  Lincoln            6
  Merton             6
  Wadham             6
  University         5
  Keble              2
  Corpus Christi     1
  St. Edmund Hall    1

One each from Balliol, Hertford, and Pembroke have since gone down.

Distribution according to course, &c. Those who are reading in the Honour
Schools for the B.A. degree are as follows:—

  Literae Humaniores                                             23
  Modern History                                                 18
  Jurisprudence                                                  27
  Natural Science (Geology, Chemistry, Physiology, and Physics)  16
  English Literature                                             12
  Theology                                                        8
  Mathematics                                                     4
  Modern Languages                                                2
  Reading for a Pass Degree                                       1

In courses more specialized or advanced than those for the B.A. degree
there are reading:—

  For the B.C.L. degree     14
   ”   ”  B.Sc.    ”         3
   ”   ”  B.Litt.  ”         9
   ”  Medicine               4
   ”  Diploma in Economics   8
  Forestry                   2

For further Statistics concerning Rhodes Scholars, see Chap. iii and
Chart, p. 29.




APPENDIX II

LIST OF COMMITTEES OF SELECTION


AUSTRALASIA.


New South Wales.

His Excellency the Governor of New South Wales (in his private capacity),
Chairman.

The Chief Justice of New South Wales.

The Chancellor of the University of Sydney.

The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Sydney.

The Chairman of the Professorial Board of the University of Sydney.


New Zealand.

The Governor of the Colony (in his private capacity).

The Chief Justice of the Colony.

The Chancellor of the University of New Zealand.

Four persons severally _appointed from year to year by the Professorial
Board_ of the four Institutions affiliated to the University of New
Zealand.

NOTE.—The Chief Justice at the present time, Sir Robert Stout, is also
Chancellor of the University. It has been agreed that while he holds the
two offices his place on the Committee of Selection as Chief Justice
shall be filled by the next senior Judge of the Supreme Court.


Queensland.

His Excellency the Governor (in his private capacity), Chairman.

The Chief Justice of Queensland.

Four other members selected by the Head Masters of Secondary Schools
recognized as such by the Department of Public Instruction.


South Australia.

The Governor of the State in his private capacity (Chairman).

The Chief Justice of South Australia.

Four other persons to be _appointed annually by the Council of the
University of Adelaide_, of whom not more than three shall be Professors
of that University.


Tasmania.

His Excellency the Governor in his private capacity (Chairman).

The Chief Justice of Tasmania.

One Professor of the University of Tasmania, to be elected by the
University Council.

Two members to be elected by the members of the University Senate.

Two members to be elected by the Head Masters of the Secondary Schools in
Tasmania.


Victoria.

His Excellency the Governor in his private capacity (Chairman).

The Chief Justice of Victoria.

The President of the Professorial Board of the University of Melbourne.

The Director of Education for the State of Victoria.

A member of the teaching staff of the University, to be nominated by the
University Council.


West Australia.

His Excellency the Governor in his private capacity (Chairman).

The Chief Justice of West Australia.

The Inspector-General of Schools.


BERMUDA.

His Excellency the Governor (Chairman).

The Honourable the Chief Justice.

The Hon. the Colonial Secretary for the time being.


CANADA.

In the Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, it
has been determined that nominations to the Scholarships shall be made
by the Chartered Universities and Colleges of these Provinces in the
following order:—

            =Ontario.=                    =Quebec.=

  1906. Toronto University.           McGill University.
  1907. Queen’s University.           Laval University.
  1908. Toronto University.           McGill University.
  1909. McMaster University.          Laval University.
  1910. Toronto University.           Lennoxville University.
  1911. Ottawa University.            McGill University.
  1912. Queen’s University.           Laval University.

          =New Brunswick.=                =Nova Scotia.=

  1906. University of New Brunswick.  Dalhousie University.
  1907. Mount Alison University.      Acadia University.
  1908. University of St. Joseph’s    Dalhousie University.
          College.
  1909. University of New Brunswick.  King’s College University.
  1910. Mount Alison University.      Dalhousie University.
  1911. University of New Brunswick.  St. Francis College.
  1912. Mount Alison University.      Acadia University.

Where Universities make appointments the final decision shall be made
through a Committee of Selection consisting of the President or Principal
and four members elected by the Faculty of the University.

To provide for the representation of affiliated Colleges the Committee of
Selection in Toronto University shall consist of the _President and six
members elected by the Faculty of the University_.

In the other Provinces the selection of scholars will be made by the
following Committees:—


Alberta and Saskatchewan (one Scholarship).

His Honour the Lieutenant-Governor of Saskatchewan (Chairman).

His Honour the Lieutenant-Governor of Alberta.

The Honourable the Chief Justice of Saskatchewan.

The Deputy-Commissioner of Education of Saskatchewan.

The Deputy-Commissioner of Education of Alberta.


British Columbia.

The Honourable the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court (Chairman).

The Chief Superintendent of Education.

_Three other members to be named annually under the authority of the
Trustees._

For 1906 the three following gentlemen have been named:—

The Honourable Justice Duff.

David Wilson, Esq., M.A., Inspector of Schools.

H. M. Stramberg, Esq., M.A., Principal of the High School, New
Westminster.


Manitoba.

_A Committee of five members to be appointed annually by the University
of Manitoba._

The Committee for 1906 has been named as follows:—

The Honourable Chief Justice Dubuc, Vice-Chancellor (Chairman).

The Honourable Mr. Justice Richards.

H. H. Chown, B.A., M.D.

Mr. Justice Myers.

G. J. Laird, Ph.D. (Secretary).


Prince Edward Island.

His Honour the Lieutenant-Governor (Chairman).

The Honourable the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.

The Chief Superintendent of Education.

A member selected by the Staff of the Prince of Wales’s College.

A member selected by the Staff of St. Dunstan’s College.


JAMAICA.

His Excellency the Governor or Officer administering the Government
(Chairman).

The Honourable the Chief Justice.

The Superintending Inspector of Schools.

The Chairman of the Jamaica School Commission.

Dr. G. C. Henderson.


NEWFOUNDLAND.

His Excellency the Governor in his private capacity (Chairman).

The Honourable the Chief Justice.

The Senior Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court.

_Seven other members who shall be chosen annually by ballot_ by the
Council of Higher Education.


SOUTH AFRICA.

Under the provisions of the Will of Mr. Rhodes the four schools to which
Scholarships are assigned in Cape Colony have the right of electing the
Scholar. This is done under special regulations approved by the Trustees
for each school. Information about the regulations may be obtained from
the school authorities. Education at the school itself is in each case a
condition of eligibility.


Natal.

His Excellency the Governor in his private capacity (Chairman).

The Honourable the Chief Justice.

The Superintendent of Education.

Application should be made to the Superintendent of Education.


Rhodesia.

In Rhodesia the Director of Education receives the applications of
candidates, together with their credentials and testimonials, and submits
them with his recommendations to the Trustees for approval.


UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

The following are at present the _Chairmen_ of the Committees of
Selection in the different States and Territories to which Scholarships
are assigned:—

Alabama: Pres. J. W. Abercrombie, LL.D., State University, Alabama.

Arizona: Pres. K. C. Babcock, Ph.D.

Arkansas: J. N. Tillman, B.LL., University of Arkansas.

California: Pres. B. I. Wheeler, LL.D., University of California.

Colorado: James H. Baker, LL.D., Pres. of the University of Colorado.

Connecticut: Pres. Arthur T. Hadley, LL.D., Yale University.

Delaware: Principal Geo. A. Harter, M.A., Ph.D., Delaware College.

Florida: Pres. A. A. Murphree, Ph.D., Florida State College, Tallahassee.

Georgia: Chancellor David C. Barrow, University of Georgia.

Idaho: Pres. James A. Maclean, LL.D., State University.

Illinois: Pres. Edmund J. James, LL.D., University of Illinois.

Indiana: Pres. William L. Bryan, A.M., State University

Iowa: Pres. Geo. E. MacLean, Ph.D., LL.D., State University.

Kansas: Pres. Frank Strong, Ph.D., State University.

Kentucky: Prof. Arthur Yager, Ph.D., LL.D., Georgetown College,
Georgetown, Kentucky.

Louisiana: Pres. Thomas D. Boyd, A.M., LL.D., State University, Baton
Rouge.

Maine: Pres. G. E. Fellows, Ph.D., LL.D., the State University.

Maryland: Pres. Ira Remsen, LL.D., Johns Hopkins University.

Massachusetts: Pres. Charles W. Eliot, LL.D., Harvard University.

Michigan: Pres. Jas. B. Angell, LL.D., State University, Michigan.

Minnesota: Pres. Cyrus Northrup, LL.D., State University, Minnesota.

Missouri: Pres. R. H. Jesse, LL.D., University of Missouri.

Montana: Pres. Oscar J. Craig, Ph.D., State University, Montana.

Nebraska: Chancellor E. B. Andrews, LL.D., State University.

Nevada: Pres. Joseph E. Stubbs, D.D., LL.D., State University.

New Hampshire: Pres. Wm. J. Tucker, D.D., LL.D., Dartmouth College.

New Jersey: Pres. Woodrow Wilson, LL.D., Princeton University.

New Mexico: Wm. G. Tight, Ph.D., State University.

New York: Pres. A. V. V. Raymond, D.D., Union. Permanent Secretary:
Howard J. Rogers, First Assistant Commissioner of Education, Albany.

North Carolina: Pres. F. P. Venable, Ph.D., LL.D., University of North
Carolina.

North Dakota: Pres. Webster Merrifield, M.A., State University.

Ohio: Pres. W. O. Thompson, LL.D., State University.

Oklahoma: Pres. David R. Boyd, Ph.D., State University.

Oregon: Pres. P. L. Campbell, B.A., State University.

Pennsylvania: Pres. Chas. C. Harrison, LL.D., University of Pennsylvania.

Rhode Island: Pres. W. H. P. Faunce, D.D., Brown University.

South Carolina: Pres. B. Sloan, LL.D., South Carolina College, Columbia.

South Dakota: Pres. Garret Droppers, Ph.D., State University.

Tennessee: Pres. Brown Ayres, Ph.D., LL.D., State University.

Texas: Pres. David R. Houston, LL.D., University of Texas.

Utah: Pres. J. T. Kingsbury, Ph.D., State University.

Vermont: Pres. M. H. Buckham, D.D., University of Vermont.

Virginia: Pres. Edwin A. Alderman, LL.D., University of Virginia,
Charlottesville.

Washington: Pres. T. F. Kane, Ph.D., University of Washington.

West Virginia: Pres. D. B. Purinton, Ph.D., LL.D., West Virginia
University.

Wisconsin: Pres. C. R. Van Hise, Ph.D., LL.D., the University of
Wisconsin.

Wyoming: Pres. F. M. Tisdel, Ph.D., State University.


GERMANY.

The appointments in Germany are made by the Emperor.

Information as to conditions, &c., may be obtained by writing to Dr. F.
Schmidt, Kultus-Ministerium, Berlin.




APPENDIX III

EXAMINATION PAPERS


_Examination conducted in behalf of the TRUSTEES of the RHODES BEQUEST,
January, 1907, by the Delegacy of Local Examinations, Oxford, England._

The time allowed for each Paper is two hours.


I. ARITHMETIC.

1. A merchant began business with $100,000. In the first year he made
10 per cent., which he added to his capital. In the second year he made
20 per cent. and added the profits to his capital. In the third year he
again made 20 per cent., and laid out $60,000 on real estate. How much
capital would he have left in the business at the beginning of the fourth
year?

2. Find the difference between

9⅕ - 1⅔ × 3⅜ and 2¾ × 1⅙ - ⅘.

3. Find the square root of 4⅑ to four places of decimals.

4. If, by selling an article for $2, a man gains ⅐ of the cost price, at
what price must he sell it so as to gain 8 per cent.?

5. The area of one side of a cubical cistern is 14·0625 square feet; find
to the nearest gallon the amount of water which it will hold when full,
assuming that one cubic foot weighs 1,000 ounces and that one gallon of
water weighs 10 lb.

6. Find the cost of a carpet to cover a floor 22 ft. 6 in. long and 18
ft. 9 in. wide at 5_s._ 4_d._ per square yard.

7. Divide £37. 10_s._ 4½_d._ by 4⅐ and express £3. 14_s._ 7½_d._ as the
decimal of £10.

8. A sum of $2,500 is lent at compound interest at 3½ per cent. per
annum. What is due to the lender at the end of three years?

9. _A_ can do a piece of work in 24 days which _B_ can do in 36 days.
What fraction will remain to be done if both are engaged upon the work
for 6 days?


II. ALGEBRA OR GEOMETRY.


(_a_) ALGEBRA.

The full working must be shown in all cases.

1. If 2_p_ - 3_q_ = 8, ½_q_ = _p_ - 6, find the value of

(_p_ - _q_)² - 7(_p_² - _q_²) + 12(_p_ + _q_)².

2. Divide

_x_⁶ + _ax_⁵ - 12_a_²_x_⁴ + 19_a_³_x_³ + 15_a_⁴_x_² - 14_a_⁵_x_ + 2_a_⁶

by

_x_² + 4_ax_ - 2_a_².

3. Find the highest common factor of

54_p_⁵ - 11_p_²_q_³ - _q_⁵ and 12_p_⁵ + 11_p_⁴_q_ + _q_⁵,

and the least common multiple of

_a_²_c_(_ab_ - _b_²), 4(_a_² - _b_²)_c_³, 6_b_²_c_. 3(_ab_² + _a_²_b_).

4. Simplify:

(1) ((_p_ + 3)/(_p_² + 2)) + (1/(2_p_ + 2)) - (1/(_p_ - 1));

(2) {_p_(_p_ + _q_) - _q_(_p_ - _q_)} {_p_(_p_ - _q_) - _q_(_q_ - _p_)} ÷
(_p_³ - _q_³).

5. Solve the equations:

(1) (_x_ + 3)/6 - (11 - _x_)/7 = (⅖)(_x_ - 4) - (⅟₂₁)(_x_ - 3);

(2) 1/(_x_ + 1) + 2/(_x_ + 2) = 3/(_x_ + 3);

(3) 17_x_/a + 3_y_/b = 9, 3_x_/a - 2_y_/b = 37.

6. Find the remainder (free from _x_) when _ax_² + _bx_ + _c_ is divided
by _x_ - _p_. What inference is suggested by the result?

7. By the investment of £400, partly in a 2½ per cent. stock at 75 and
partly in a 4 per cent. stock at 96, a total income of £15. 8_s._ 4_d._
is obtained. How much money is spent on each stock?

8. The perimeter of a room is _a_ feet, and the height of its walls is
_b_ feet: find the cost of papering the walls of the rooms with paper _x_
inches wide at _y_ pence per foot, the area of the windows, door, and
fireplace being (⅒)_ab_ square feet in all.


(_b_) GEOMETRY.

The use of reasonable symbols and abbreviations is permitted.

1. If two angles of a triangle are equal, the sides opposite to them are
equal.

2. Find the locus of points which are equidistant from two given points.

3. The sum of any two sides of a triangle is greater than the third side.

4. Make a triangle equal in area to a given triangle and having one of
its angles equal to a given angle.

5. Show that the bisector of the exterior angle at the vertex of an
isosceles triangle is parallel to the base.

6. A ladder erected against an inner wall of a shed just reaches a window
18 feet from the ground, and, on being turned over through a right angle
(the foot not being moved), it reaches a point on the opposite wall 7
feet 6 inches from the ground. Find the distance between the walls.

7. _D_ is the middle point of the hypotenuse _BC_ of a right-angled
triangle _BAC_. Show that _DA_ = _DB_.

8. _AB_, _CD_ are two equal chords in a circle. Show that they are
equidistant from the centre.

9. Show that, if two tangents are drawn to a circle from an external
point, the tangents (1) are equal in length, (2) subtend equal angles at
the centre of the circle.


III. LATIN PROSE COMPOSITION.

Translate into Latin:—

When the bridge was nearly all cut away, Horatius made his two companions
leave him, and pass over into the city. Then he stood alone on the
bridge, and defied all the army of the Etruscans: and they showered their
javelins upon him, and he caught them on his shield and stood yet unhurt.
But just as they were rushing at him, to drive him from his post by main
force, the last beams of the bridge gave way, and it all fell with a
mighty crash into the river. While the Etruscans wondered, and stopped
in their course, Horatius turned and prayed to the god of the river: ‘O
father Tiber, I pray thee to receive these arms and me who bear them, and
to let thy waters befriend and save me.’ Then he leaped into the river,
and though the darts fell all around him, yet they did not wound him, and
he swam across to the city safe and sound.


IV. GREEK _AND_ LATIN GRAMMAR.


(_a_) LATIN GRAMMAR.

1. Give (_a_) the meaning, gender, and genitive singular of—pes, domus,
lex, opus;

and (_b_) the meaning, genitive case, and comparative of—parvus, niger,
vetus, senex.

2. Give the meaning, present infinitive, and 1st person sing. of the
perfect indicative of—pono, capio, morior, iuvo, audeo, reor.

3. Explain what impersonal verbs are, and give instances to show the
constructions used with them.

4. Translate into Latin:—

(_a_) Having lost his horse, he was obliged to go on foot.

(_b_) I hope that he will come quickly.

(_c_) He will return home to-morrow.

(_d_) I am afraid that the girl will die.

(_e_) Whatever happens, we must go away.

5 What is the meaning of the following prepositions and what cases do
they take—penes, coram, apud, instar?

6. What classes of verbs cannot ordinarily be used in the passive voice,
and why?


(_b_) GREEK GRAMMAR.

1. Give (_a_) the meaning, gender, and genitive singular of—πόλις, χρώς,
κέρας, σῶμα:

and (_b_) the meaning, genitive singular, and comparative of—ταχύς,
μέγας, φίλος.

2. Decline in the singular—οὐδείς, ὅστις, and in the plural—σύ, οὗτος,
πᾶς.

3. Give the 1st person singular of the future and of the 2nd aorist
indicative active of—αἱρέω, φέρω, πάσχω, δίδωμι, θνήσκω.

4. Translate into English:—μὴ γένοιτο, πέμπτος αὐτός, οἴκαδε, οἱ σὺν
αὐτῷ, ἔλεξε τοιάδε.

5. What is the Greek for—the same man, myself, upwards, as if, therefore,
thirty years?

6. Name all the prepositions which govern the dative case, and give their
meanings.


V AND VI. TRANSLATION FROM LATIN AND GREEK INTO ENGLISH.


V. TRANSLATION FROM LATIN INTO ENGLISH.

_The Paper contains the following Sections_:—

   =1.= Passages from Authors not specially prescribed.
   =2.=    ”      ”   Caesar, De Bello Gallico I-IV.
   =3.=    ”      ”   Cicero, Philippics I, II.
   =4.=    ”      ”   Cicero, In Catilinam I-III, and In Verrem Actio I.
   =5.=    ”      ”   Cicero, Pro Murena and Pro Lege Manilia.
   =6.=    ”      ”   Cicero, De Senectute and De Amicitia.
   =7.=    ”      ”   Horace, Odes.
   =8.=    ”      ”   Horace, Satires.
   =9.=    ”      ”   Horace, Epistles.
  =10.=    ”      ”   Livy V, VI.
  =11.=    ”      ”   Virgil, Georgics.
  =12.=    ”      ”   Virgil, Bucolics and Aeneid I-VI.

N.B.—Candidates must select one and ONLY ONE of the Sections numbered
=1-12=.


VI. TRANSLATION FROM GREEK INTO ENGLISH.

_The Paper contains the following Sections_:—

  =1.= Passages from Authors not specially prescribed.
  =2.=    ”      ”   Demosthenes, De Corona.
  =3.=    ”      ”   Euripides, (α) Hecuba, (β) Medea, (γ) Alcestis,
                       (δ) Bacchae.
  =4.=    ”      ”   Homer, Iliad I-VI.
  =5.=    ”      ”   Homer, Odyssey I-VI.
  =6.=    ”      ”   Plato, Apology, Crito.
  =7.=    ”      ”   Sophocles, Antigone and Ajax.
  =8.=    ”      ”   Xenophon, Anabasis I-V.

N.B.—Candidates must select one and ONLY ONE of the Sections numbered
=1-8=.

Each of the above Sections comprises from three to eight passages from
the Books or Sources mentioned, and the total amount of translation
required averages between fifty and sixty lines of ordinary text. No
questions on context or grammar are set; translation _only_.




APPENDIX IV

LIST OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS AND LECTURERS


I. Literae Humaniores.

  I. Bywater, Regius Professor of Greek (Christ Church).
  T. Case, Waynflete Professor of Moral and Metaphysical Philosophy
        (President of Corpus).
  J. Cook Wilson, Wykeham Professor of Logic (New College).
  Robinson Ellis, Corpus Professor of Latin (Trinity).
  A. Evans, Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum (Magdalen).
  L. R. Farnell, Lecturer in Classical Archaeology (Exeter).
  P. Gardner, Professor of Classical Archaeology and Art (Lincoln).
  F. Ll. Griffith, Reader in Egyptology (Queen’s).
  G. B. Grundy, Lecturer in Ancient Geography (Corpus).
  R. W. Macan, Camden Reader in Ancient History (Master of
        University).
  W. McDougall, Wilde’s Reader in Mental Philosophy.
  F. Madan, Lecturer in Palaeography (B.N.C.).
  J. L. Myers, Lecturer in Classical Archaeology (Christ Church).
  H. F. Pelham, Camden Professor of Ancient History (President of
        Trinity).
  J. A. Stewart, White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy (Christ
        Church).
  E. B. Tylor, Professor of Anthropology (Balliol).
  J. Wright, Professor of Comparative Philology (Exeter).
  P. S. Allen (Corpus).
  T. W. Allen (Queen’s).
  J. G. C. Anderson (Christ Church).
  C. Bailey (Balliol).
  S. Ball (St. John’s).
  A. T. Barton (Pembroke).
  P. V. M. Benecke (Magdalen).
  H. E. D. Blakiston (Trinity).
  A. W. F. Blunt (Exeter).
  H. W. Blunt (Christ Church).
  E. A. Burroughs (Hertford).
  F. W. Bussell (B.N.C.).
  H. E. Butler (New College).
  E. Caird (Master of Balliol).
  A. J. Carlyle (University).
  E. F. Carritt (University).
  A. C. Clark (Queen’s).
  C. Cookson (Magdalen).
  H. J. Cunningham (Worcester).
  H. W. C. Davis (Balliol).
  W. H. Fairbrother (Keble).
  A. S. L. Farquharson (University).
  W. H. Fyfe (Merton).
  H. W. Garrod (Merton).
  E. E. Genner (Jesus).
  A. D. Godley (Magdalen).
  H. W. Greene (Magdalen).
  W. H. Hadow (Worcester).
  F. W. Hall (St. John’s).
  E. G. Hardy (Jesus).
  F. Haverfield (Christ Church).
  B. W. Henderson (Exeter).
  W. W. How (Merton).
  A. J. Jenkinson (B.N.C.).
  H. H. Joachim (Merton).
  H. W. B. Joseph (New College).
  A. D. Lindsay (Balliol).
  R. W. Livingstone (Corpus).
  F. J. Lys (Worcester).
  E. C. Marchant (Lincoln).
  R. R. Marett (Exeter).
  P. E. Matheson (New College).
  J. A. R. Munro (Lincoln).
  A. S. Owen (Keble).
  J. H. F. Peile (University).
  W. Phelps (Corpus).
  A. W. Pickard-Cambridge (Balliol).
  J. U. Powell (St. John’s).
  A. B. Poynton (University).
  H. A. Prichard (Trinity).
  R. W. Raper (Trinity).
  H. Rashdall (New College).
  W. H. V. Reade (Keble).
  H. P. Richards (Wadham).
  F. C. S. Schiller (Corpus).
  J. A. Smith (Balliol).
  G. H. Stevenson (University).
  J. L. Strachan-Davidson (Balliol).
  W. Temple (Queen’s).
  R. J. E. Tiddy (Trinity).
  M. N. Tod (Oriel).
  J. Tracey (Keble).
  G. E. Underhill (Magdalen).
  E. M. Walker (Queen’s).
  W. Warde Fowler (Lincoln).
  W. Warner (Christ Church).
  C. C. J. Webb (Magdalen).
  J. Wells (Wadham).
  H. H. Williams (Hertford).
  G. Wood (Pembroke).
  G. M. Young (St. John’s).
  A. E. Zimmern (New College).


II. Jurisprudence.

  A. V. Dicey, Vinerian Professor of English Law (All Souls).
  W. M. Geldart, All Souls Reader in English Law (Trinity).
  H. Goudy, Regius Professor of Civil Law (All Souls).
  T. E. Holland, Chichele Professor of International Law and
        Diplomacy (All Souls).
  E. J. Trevelyan, Reader in Indian Law (All Souls).
  P. Vinogradoff, Corpus Professor of Jurisprudence (Corpus).
  G. B. Burnham (University).
  A. T. Carter (Christ Church).
  A. E. W. Hazel (Jesus).
  E. Hilliard (Balliol).
  W. S. Holdsworth (St. John’s).
  R. W. Leage (B.N.C.).
  R. W. Lee (Worcester).
  J. C. Miles (Merton).
  T. R. Potts (Lincoln).
  J. Williams (Lincoln).
  F. de Zulueta (New College).


III. Modern History.

  C. R. Beazley, Lecturer on the History of Geography (Merton).
  Sir F. H. E. Cunliffe, Bart., Lecturer in Military History (All
        Souls).
  F. Y. Edgeworth, Drummond Professor of Political Economy (All
        Souls).
  H. E. Egerton, Beit Professor of Colonial History (All Souls).
  C. H. Firth, Regius Professor of Modern History (Oriel).
  W. L. Grant, Beit Assistant Lecturer in Colonial History (Balliol).
  A. J. Herbertson, Reader in Geography (Wadham).
  F. Madan, Lecturer in Palaeography (B.N.C.).
  C. W. C. Oman, Chichele Professor of Modern History (All Souls).
  S. J. Owen, Reader in Indian History (Christ Church).
  R. L. Poole, Lecturer in Diplomatic (Magdalen).
  P. Vinogradoff, Corpus Professor of Jurisprudence (Corpus).
  C. T. Atkinson (Exeter).
  E. Armstrong (Queen’s).
  J. B. Baker (Non-Collegiate).
  E. Barker (Wadham).
  G. Baskerville (Keble).
  F. W. Bussell (B.N.C.).
  A. J. Carlyle (University).
  H. W. C. Davis (Balliol).
  O. M. Edwards (Lincoln).
  H. A. L. Fisher (New College).
  A. Hassall (Christ Church).
  R. H. Hodgkin (Queen’s).
  W. H. Hutton (St. John’s).
  L. C. Jane (Keble).
  A. H. Johnson (All Souls).
  J. A. R. Marriott (Worcester).
  F. C. Montague (Oriel).
  F. Morgan (Keble).
  S. L. Ollard (St. Edmund Hall).
  M. W. Patterson (Trinity).
  R. S. Rait (New College).
  W. R. B. Riddell (Hertford).
  C. Grant Robertson (All Souls).
  A. L. Smith (Balliol).
  L. Stampa (Queen’s).
  F. Urquhart (Balliol).
  G. H. Wakeling (B.N.C.).
  R. J. Whitwell (New College).
  L. G. Wickham Legg (New College).


IV. Theology.

  C. Bigg, Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History (Christ
        Church).
  R. H. Charles, Grinfield Lecturer on the Septuagint (Exeter).
  T. K. Cheyne, Oriel Professor of Interpretation (Oriel).
  S. R. Driver, Regius Professor of Hebrew (Christ Church).
  W. Ince, Regius Professor of Divinity (Christ Church).
  W. Lock, Dean Ireland’s Professor of Exegesis (Warden of Keble).
  R. L. Ottley, Regius Professor of Pastoral Theology (Christ
        Church).
  W. Sanday, Margaret Professor of Divinity (Christ Church).
  C. H. Turner, Speaker’s Lecturer in Biblical Studies (Magdalen).
  W. C. Allen (Exeter).
  C. M. Blagden (Christ Church).
  F. E. Brightman (Magdalen).
  R. Brook (Merton).
  C. F. Burney (St. John’s).
  A. J. Carlyle (University).
  A. E. Cowley (Magdalen).
  F. H. Dudden (Lincoln).
  E. W. M. O. de la Hey (Keble).
  F. C. N. Hicks (Keble).
  B. J. Kidd (Pembroke).
  S. L. Ollard (St. Edmund Hall).
  E. J. Palmer (Balliol).
  L. Pullan (St. John’s).
  W. A. Spooner (Warden of New College).
  J. F. Stenning (Wadham).
  B. H. Streeter (Queen’s).
  H. C. Wace (B.N.C.).
  C. C. J. Webb (Magdalen).


V. Oriental Languages.

  C. J. Ball, Lecturer in Assyriology (St. John’s).
  H. S. K. Bellairs, Lecturer in Marāthī (Balliol).
  J. F. Blumhardt, Lecturer in Bengālī.
  J. E. Bridges, Lecturer in Burmese.
  T. L. Bullock, Professor of Chinese (New College).
  S. R. Driver, Regius Professor of Hebrew (Christ Church).
  F. Ll. Griffith, Reader in Egyptology (Queen’s).
  W. Hoey, Lecturer in Hindūstānī.
  A. A. Macdonell, Boden Professor of Sanskrit (Balliol).
  D. S. Margoliouth, Laudian Professor of Arabic (New College).
  L. H. Mills, Professor of Zend Philology.
  Sheikh Mohammed Hasanein al-Ghamrāwī, Teacher of Arabic.
  G. F. Nicholl, Lord Almoner’s Reader in Arabic (Balliol).
  G. U. Pope, Lecturer in Tamil and Telugu (Balliol).
  G. S. A. Ranking, Lecturer in Persian (Balliol).
  A. H. Sayce, Professor of Assyriology (Queen’s).
  W. C. Allen (Exeter).
  C. F. Burney (St. John’s).
  A. E. Cowley (Magdalen).
  J. F. Stenning (Wadham).


VI. Modern Languages.

  F. L. Armitage, Taylorian Lecturer in German (Balliol).
  F. de Arteaga, Taylorian Lecturer in Spanish.
  H. E. Berthon, Taylorian Lecturer in French (Wadham).
  C. F. Coscia, Taylorian Lecturer in Italian (Queen’s).
  W. A. Craigie, Taylorian Lecturer in Scandinavian (Oriel).
  H. G. Fiedler, Taylorian Lecturer in Old High and Middle High
        German and German Philology.
  W. R. Morfill, Professor of Russian (Oriel).
  E. Moore, Lecturer on Dante (Principal of St. Edmund Hall).
  H. Oelsner, Taylorian Lecturer in Old French and in Romance
        Philology.
  H. A. L. Fisher (New College).
  C. T. T. Kemshead (Magdalen).


VII. English Literature.

  J. W. Mackail, Professor of Poetry (Balliol).
  A. S. Napier, Merton Professor of English Language and Literature,
        and Rawlinsonian Professor of Anglo-Saxon (Merton).
  W. A. Raleigh, Professor of English Literature (Magdalen).
  J. Rhys, Jesus Professor of Celtic (Principal of Jesus).
  E. de Sélincourt, Lecturer in English Literature (University).
  H. Sweet, Reader in Phonetics (Balliol).
  J. Wright, Professor of Comparative Philology (Exeter).
  A. J. Carlyle (University).
  T. C. Snow (St. John’s).
  R. J. E. Tiddy (Trinity).


VIII. Mathematics.

  E. B. Elliott, Waynflete Professor of Pure Mathematics (Queen’s).
  W. Esson, Savilian Professor of Geometry (Merton).
  F. J. Jervis-Smith, Lecturer in Mechanics (Trinity).
  H. H. Turner, Savilian Professor of Astronomy (New College).
  J. E. Campbell (University).
  A. L. Dixon (Merton).
  H. T. Gerrans (Worcester).
  C. E. Haselfoot (Hertford).
  E. H. Hayes (New College).
  A. E. Jolliffe (Corpus).
  P. J. Kirkby (Exeter).
  R. F. McNeile (Christ Church).
  A. L. Pedder (Magdalen).
  H. C. Plummer (Hertford).
  J. W. Russell (Balliol).
  C. H. Sampson (B.N.C.).
  C. H. Thompson (Queen’s).


IX. Natural Science and Medicine.

  H. B. Baker, Dr. Lee’s Reader in Chemistry (Christ Church).
  J. Barclay, Dr. Lee’s Reader in Anatomy (Christ Church).
  R. E. Baynes, Dr. Lee’s Reader in Physics (Christ Church).
  G. C. Bourne, Linacre Professor of Comparative Anatomy (Merton).
  W. T. Brooks, Litchfield Lecturer in Medicine (Christ Church).
  R. B. Clifton, Professor of Experimental Philosophy (Merton).
  R. W. Doyne, Reader in Ophthalmology (Keble).
  W. W. Fisher, Aldrichian Demonstrator in Chemistry (Corpus).
  E. S. Goodrich, Aldrichian Demonstrator in Comparative Anatomy
        (Merton).
  F. Gotch, Waynflete Professor of Physiology (Magdalen).
  J. S. Haldane, Waynflete Lecturer in Physiology (New College).
  A. E. H. Love, Sedleian Professor of Natural Philosophy (Queen’s).
  H. A. Miers, Waynflete Professor of Mineralogy (Magdalen).
  W. Odling, Waynflete Professor of Chemistry (Worcester).
  W. Osler, Regius Professor of Medicine (Christ Church).
  A. P. Parker, Litchfield Lecturer in Surgery (B.N.C.).
  E. B. Poulton, Hope Professor of Zoology (Jesus).
  J. Ritchie, Professor and Reader in Pathology (New College).
  W. J. Smith-Jerome, Lecturer in Medical Pharmacology and Materia
        Medica (New College).
  W. J. Sollas, Professor of Geology (University).
  W. Somerville, Sibthorpian Professor of Rural Economy (St. John’s).
  A. Thomson, Professor of Human Anatomy (Exeter).
  J. S. E. Townsend, Wykeham Professor of Physics (New College).
  H. H. Turner, Savilian Professor of Astronomy (New College).
  E. B. Tylor, Professor of Anthropology (Balliol).
  S. H. Vines, Sherardian Professor of Botany (Magdalen).
  A. Angel (B.N.C.).
  T. V. Barker (Magdalen).
  H. L. Bowman (New College).
  G. B. Cronshaw (Queen’s).
  F. A. Dixey (Wadham).
  J. A. Douglas (Keble).
  W. R. Fisher (B.N.C.).
  A. G. Gibson (Christ Church).
  G. H. Grosvenor (New College).
  R. W. T. Günther (Magdalen).
  H. B. Hartley (Balliol).
  C. E. Haselfoot (Hertford).
  H. E. Hurst (Hertford).
  J. W. Jenkinson (Exeter).
  L. G. Killby (Christ Church).
  P. J. Kirkby (New College).
  B. Lambert (Merton).
  R. T. Lattey (Trinity).
  E. Mallam (Magdalen).
  J. J. Manley (Magdalen).
  G. Mann (New College).
  J. E. Marsh (Merton).
  T. S. Moore (Magdalen).
  D. H. Nagel (Trinity).
  H. C. Plummer (Hertford).
  W. Ramsden (Pembroke).
  N. V. Sidgwick (Lincoln).
  W. N. Stocker (B.N.C.).
  H. M. Vernon (Magdalen).
  A. F. Walden (Queen’s).
  E. W. A. Walker (University).
  J. Walker (Christ Church).
  J. Watts (Balliol).




APPENDIX V

LECTURES GIVEN IN THE HONOUR SCHOOLS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD DURING
MICHAELMAS TERM, 1906[88]


I. Literae Humaniores.


_a._ PHILOSOPHY.

  _Plato: Republic_: J. A. Stewart, J. A. R. Munro, A. D. Lindsay, W.
        Temple, R. R. Marett, H. A. Prichard.
  _Aristotle: Ethics_: Professor T. Case, H. Rashdall, H. P. Richards,
        W. H. Hadow, H. W. Blunt, J. A. Smith.
    _Politics: Introduction_: J. L. Myres.
    _Metaphysics_: W. D. Ross.
    _De Anima_: J. A. Smith.
  _On the Treatise_ Περὶ ἀτόμων γραμμῶν (six lectures): H. H. Joachim.
  _Logic_: Professor J. Cook Wilson, E. Caird.
  _Logic_ (Informal Instruction): Professor J. Cook Wilson.
  _Hypothetical Thinking_: Professor J. Cook Wilson.
  _Aristotelian Logic_: J. A. Smith.
  _Logic_, with special reference to the Psychology of Cognition: F. C.
        S. Schiller.
  _Descartes: Meditations_: H. H. Joachim.
  _Avenarius_: H. W. Blunt.
  _Select passages of the Enneades of Plotinus_ (six lectures):
        Professor J. A. Stewart.
  _Plato’s Doctrine of Ideas_ (six lectures): Professor J. A. Stewart.
  _Nic. Ethics, VI and VII_ (Informal Instruction): Professor J. A.
        Stewart.
  _The relation of Economics and Ethics: the Conception of Culpable
        Luxury_: H. W. Blunt (by arrangement with Professor Stewart).
  _Savage Religion in its bearing on Ethics_ (Informal Instruction): R.
        R. Marett.
  _Kant’s Kritik of Pure Reason_: H. Rashdall, A. S. L. Farquharson, H.
        A. Prichard.
  _Main Problems of Ethics_: S. Ball.
  _Moral Philosophy_: H. H. Williams.
  _Outlines of Moral Philosophy_: W. H. Hadow.
  _Relation of Philosophy to the Sciences_: G. E. Underhill.
  _Ethics in relation to Biology and Psychology_: R. R. Marett.
  _Varieties of Idealism_: C. C. J. Webb.
  _The Philosophy of Religion_: C. C. J. Webb.
  _Introduction to the Philosophy of Art_: E. F. Carritt.
  _The Philosophy of the Stoics_: A. S. L. Farquharson.
  _Philosophical Terminology_: W. D. Ross.
  _The Psychology of Childhood_: W. McDougall.
  _Outlines of the History of Political Philosophy_: P. V. M. Benecke.
  _Political Economy_, with special reference to Mill: A. J. Carlyle.


_b._ ANCIENT HISTORY.

GREEK HISTORY.

  _Constitutional History of Athens, with_ Ἀθηναίων Πολιτεία: R. W.
        Macan.
  _Constitutional History of Athens_: E. M. Walker.
  _Aristotle_: Ἀθηναίων Πολιτεία, Part I: H. J. Cunningham.
  _The Pentekontaetia_, B. C. 479-431: M. N. Tod.
  _Greek History_, B. C. 479-403: G. Wood.
  _Herodotus_: W. W. How, G. E. Underhill, J. Tracey, J. Wells.
  _Herodotus in Egypt_: F. Ll. Griffith.
  _The Delian Confederacy and the Athenian Empire_: B. W. Henderson.
  _Thucydides_: H. W. C. Davis.
  _Thucydides, VIII; and Xenophon, Hellenica_: G. B. Grundy.
  _Greek Commerce and Colonization_: J. L. Myres.
  _Slavery_: A. E. Zimmern.
  _Strategic Geography of Greece_: G. B. Grundy.

ROMAN HISTORY.

  _The Early Caesars_: Professor H. F. Pelham.
  _Military History of Rome_, A. D. 68-70: B. W. Henderson.
  _Army, Frontiers and Provinces under the Early Principate_: E. G.
        Hardy.
  _The Empire_: F. Haverfield.
  _Cicero’s Life and Letters_, B. C. 68-49: W. Warde Fowler.
  _Cicero’s Letters_: J. L. Strachan-Davidson, P. E. Matheson, P. V. M.
        Benecke.
  _Tacitus, Annals_: J. L. Strachan-Davidson.
  _Roman Inscriptions of Early Empire_: F. Haverfield.
  _Geography of the Western Mediterranean_: J. L. Myres.


_c._ LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE.

GREEK BOOKS.

  _Aeschylus, Agamemnon_: A. T. Barton, C. Cookson.
    _Prometheus Vinctus_: H. E. D. Blakiston, T. W. Allen.
    _Choephoroe_: A. W. F. Blunt.
  _Aristophanes, Acharnians, Wasps_: H. P. Richards.
    (General Questions, with papers on special plays): C. Bailey.
  _Demosthenes (Private Orations)_: T. W. Allen, W. H. Fyfe, A. B.
        Poynton, F. W. Hall, W. Phelps.
    (Vol. I, Papers): F. J. Lys.
    (_Political Orations_): H. B. Cooper.
    (_Androtion_, _Timocrates_, _Aristocrates_, _Leptines_): H. W.
        Greene.
    (_Public Orations_) (with papers): A. W. Pickard-Cambridge, G. C.
        Richards.
  _Euripides, Bacchae_: L. R. Farnell.
    _Hippolytus_: J. G. C. Anderson, G. G. A. Murray.
    _Hercules Furens_: A. S. Owen.
  _Homer_: T. W. Allen.
    _Iliad_ (papers only): H. F. Fox.
    _Odyssey_: R. W. Raper, E. E. Genner.
    (_General and Literary Questions_): E. A. Burroughs.
  _Pindar_ (Olympian Odes): L. R. Farnell, H. W. Garrod.
  _Plato, Republic, I-IV_: Professor I. Bywater, R. J. E. Tiddy.
    _Gorgias and Protagoras_: H. L. Henderson.
  _Sophocles, Antigone; and Aeschylus, Prometheus Vinctus_: E. C.
        Marchant.
  _Theocritus_: A. C. Clark.
  _Thucydides, II_: A. T. Barton, J. U. Powell.

LATIN BOOKS.

  _Lucan, V, VI_: Professor R. Ellis.
  _Cicero_ (_Verrines_, and _de Lege Agraria_): A. B. Poynton, S. G.
        Owen.
    _Orations_, B. C. 81-63: C. Bailey.
    _Orations_: H. E. Butler, F. W. Hall.
    _Letters_ (Part I): A. C. Clark, G. C. Richards.
  _Horace, Satires and Epistles_: F. de Paravicini.
  _Tacitus, Histories_: A. D. Godley.
    _Annals, I, II_: J. H. F. Peile.
  _Virgil, General Introduction (with Aeneid)_: H. W. Garrod.

HISTORY OF GREEK AND LATIN LITERATURE.

  _Aristotle, Poetics_: A. W. Pickard-Cambridge.
  _Aristotle, Poetics, with History of the Greek Drama_: H. P. Richards.
  _Roman Literature_: C. Cookson.
  _The transmission of the Classics to Modern Times_: P. S. Allen.
  _Introduction to the Study of Comparative Philology_: Professor J.
        Wright.
  _Greek and Latin Verse_: A. D. Godley.
  _Greek: Literary Questions_: L. R. Farnell.


_d._ CLASSICAL ARCHAEOLOGY.

  _Greek Sculpture_, B. C. 440-320: Professor P. Gardner.
  _Greek Coins_: Professor P. Gardner.
  _The History of Greek Sculpture after Alexander_: L. R. Farnell.
  _Prehistoric Greece, I: The Minoan and Mycenaean Age_: J. L. Myres.
  _Prehistoric Italy_: J. L. Myres.
  _Elements of Greek Epigraphy_: M. N. Tod.


II. Law.

ROMAN LAW.

  _Historical and Doctrinal Lectures_ (Selected Topics): Professor H.
        Goudy.
  _Introduction and Law of Persons_: W. M. Geldart.
  _Roman Law_: R. W. Lee.
  _Possession_ (_Digest, XLI._ 2): T. R. Potts.
  _Institutes_: A. T. Carter.

ENGLISH LAW.

  _Law of Contract: Special Points_: A. V. Dicey.
  _Law of Real Property_: R. W. Leage.
  _Law of Torts_: J. Williams, E. Hilliard.
  _Constitutional Law and Legal History_: G. B. Burnham.
  _History of English Law_: T. R. Potts.

INTERNATIONAL LAW.

  _The Nature of International Law: States as International Persons,
        and their Rights in time of Peace_: Professor T. E. Holland.

JURISPRUDENCE.

  _English Law and Society in the Eleventh Century_: Professor P.
        Vinogradoff.
  _Seminar: Domesday Studies_: Professor P. Vinogradoff.
  _Jurisprudence_: A. E. W. Hazel.

INDIAN LAW.

  _Indian Penal Code_: E. J. Trevelyan.
  _Hindu Law_: E. J. Trevelyan.
  _A course of lectures for Probationers for the Indian Forestry
        Service_: E. J. Trevelyan.
  _Informal Instruction_: E. J. Trevelyan.

PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION IN THE SCHOOL OF JURISPRUDENCE.

  _Gaius_: R. W. Leage, J. C. Miles, W. M. Geldart, F. de Zulueta.
  _English History: Constitutional and Political_: W. S. Holdsworth, G.
        H. Wakeling.


III. Modern History.

ENGLISH HISTORY.

  _Informal_: Professor C. H. Firth.
  _Domesday Studies (Seminar)_: Professor P. Vinogradoff.
  _English History from the beginning_: E. Barker, L. Stampa.
  _English Law and Society in the Eleventh Century_: Professor P.
        Vinogradoff.
  _English History, Political and Constitutional, from 1154_: C. T.
        Atkinson.
  _English History, Constitutional, 1377-1485_: E. Barker.
  _The New Monarchy, 1461-1628_: O. M. Edwards.
  _English History, Political and Constitutional, from 1485_: J. A. R.
        Marriott.
  _Constitutional History, 1485-1660, with Documents from Prothero and
        Gardiner_: G. H. Wakeling.
  _The Reformation in England_: S. L. Ollard.
  _The last years of the Protectorate, 1656-1658_: Professor C. H.
        Firth.
  _The relations of England and France, 1660-1688._ _Class._ Professor
        C. H. Firth.
  _English History from the Restoration_ (from 1660): S. J. Owen, M. W.
        Patterson.
  _British Foreign Policy, from 1714_: C. G. Robertson.

FOREIGN HISTORY.

PERIOD I (476-1002).

  _Europe in the Ninth and Tenth Centuries_: R. H. Hodgkin.

PERIOD II (919-1273).

  _Papacy and Empire_: F. W. Bussell.
  _Constitutional and Social_: H. W. C. Davis.
  _Italy_: G. Baskerville.

PERIOD III (1273-1519).

  _Western Europe_: R. L. Poole.

PERIOD IV (1414-1598).

  _Italy in the Fifteenth Century_: E. Armstrong.

PERIOD VI (1715-1789).

  _Introductory_: L. G. Wickham Legg.

PERIOD VII (1789-1878).

  _Germany, 1715-1815_: W. H. Hutton.
  _The History of Prussia, 1786-1815_: C. G. Robertson.
  _European History from 1815_: A. Hassall.
  _Political Movements in the Nineteenth Century_: H. A. L. Fisher.
  _France in the Nineteenth Century_: W. R. B. Riddell.

INDIAN HISTORY.

  _The Political and Military Geography of India during the Special
        Period_: S. J. Owen.
  _The History and Present Structure of the British-Indian Government_
        (six lectures): S. J. Owen.

COLONIAL HISTORY.

  _The English Colonies in the Seventeenth Century_: Professor H. E.
        Egerton.
  _The French Régime in Canada_: W. L. Grant.

MILITARY HISTORY AND STRATEGY.

  _The Peninsular War—Massena’s Invasion of Portugal, 1810-1811_:
        Professor C. W. C. Oman.
  _The Peninsular War_: Sir Foster H. E. Cunliffe, Bart.

SPECIAL SUBJECTS (INTRODUCTORY COURSES).

  _The Saxon Emperors_: R. L. Poole.
  _The Crusades_: E. Barker.
  _Italy, 1492-1513_: A. H. Johnson.
  _Great Rebellion_: J. A. R. Marriott.
  _India_: C. T. Atkinson.
  _The French Revolution_: F. C. Montague.

PALAEOGRAPHY AND DIPLOMATIC.

  _Introductory Course_ (with special reference to forms of letters):
        F. Madan.
  _Informal Instruction in Diplomatic_: R. L. Poole.
  _Original Documents_ (Informal Practical Instruction): R. J.
        Whitwell.

POLITICAL ECONOMY AND POLITICAL SCIENCE.

  _History of English Finance from Pitt to Harcourt_: Professor F. Y.
        Edgeworth.
  _Theory of Distribution_: Professor F. Y. Edgeworth.
  _Economic History_: J. A. R. Marriott.
  _Political Economy with special reference to Mill_: A. J. Carlyle.
  _Political and Social Questions_: A. L. Smith.
  _Maine, Ancient Law_: A. H. Johnson.

GEOGRAPHY. (See p. 166.)


IV. Theology.

THE HOLY SCRIPTURES.

  _Judges_ (Subject-matter): Professor S. R. Driver.
  _Minor Prophets_: Professor S. R. Driver.
  _Religious contents of the Book of Jeremiah_: Professor T. K. Cheyne.
  _The Ark, its Significance and Fortunes_: Professor T. K. Cheyne.
  _The Book of Daniel_, i. 1-ii. 4. _Greek Versions_: R. H. Charles.
  _Outlines of Old Testament History (the Age of Moses)_: C. F. Burney.
  _Deuteronomy_ (Hebrew text): J. F. Stenning.
  _Isaiah_ (Subject-matter): J. F. Stenning.
  _Life of Christ_ (Prolegomena): Professor W. Sanday.
  _The Reconstruction of the Life of Christ_ (Four Public Lectures):
        Professor W. Sanday.
  _The Synoptic Problem_: Professor W. Sanday.
  _Von Soden’s Introduction to the New Testament_: Professor W. Lock.
  _The Life of Christ_: F. E. Brightman.
  _The Synoptic Gospels_: W. C. Allen.
  _The Gospel according to St. John_: F. C. N. Hicks.
  _The Acts of the Apostles_ (Introduction and Subject-matter): W. A.
        Spooner.
  _The First Epistle to the Corinthians_: E. J. Palmer.
  _The Epistle to the Galatians_: A. J. Carlyle.
  _The Epistle to the Ephesians_: E. W. M. O. de la Hey.

DOGMATIC AND SYMBOLIC THEOLOGY.

  _Christian Doctrine_: Professor W. Ince.
  _Christian Doctrine in the Apostolic Age_: E. W. M. O. de la Hey.
  _Doctrine of the Christian Church till_ A. D. _461_:—I. _The Doctrine
        of the Holy Trinity and the Incarnation_: L. Pullan.
  _Post-Augustinian Theology in the Western Church_: F. H. Dudden.
  _Philosophical Presuppositions of Christian Doctrine_: H. H. Williams.

ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, &C.

  _History of the Church in the First and Second Centuries_: Professor
        C. Bigg.
  _Outlines of Ante-Nicene Church History_ (the Sub-Apostolic Age): B.
        J. Kidd.
  _The Reformation in England in the Sixteenth Century_: S. L. Ollard.
  _Philosophy of Religion_: C. C. J. Webb.
  _The Pastoral Office_: Professor R. L. Ottley.
  _The Biblical Text of Irenaeus; or the Text of Cyprian’s Testimonia
        ad Quirinum_: Professor W. Sanday.

HEBREW. (See below.)


V. Oriental Languages.

ARABIC.

  _Course for Beginners_: Professor D. S. Margoliouth.
  _Course for Selected Candidates for Egyptian and Sudanese Services_:
        Egyptian Teacher of Arabic, Sheikh Mohammed Hasanein
        al-Ghamrāwī.

SYRIAC.

  _Course for the Semitic School_: Professor D. S. Margoliouth.
  _Composition and Sight Translation_: C. F. Burney.

ASSYRIOLOGY.

  _Recent Discoveries in Assyriology_ (Public Lecture): Professor A. H.
        Sayce.
  _Babylonian Conceptions of Deity_ (Public Lecture): C. J. Ball.
  _Assyrian Language and Literature_: C. J. Ball.
  _Assyrian Language and Literature_ (Advanced Class). _Tablet IV of
        the Creation Series_: C. J. Ball.

HEBREW.

  _Minor Prophets_ (Hebrew Text): Professor S. R. Driver.
  _Deuteronomy_ (Hebrew Text): J. F. Stenning (for Professor Driver).
  _Hebrew_ (Advanced and Elementary): J. F. Stenning, C. F. Burney, W.
        C. Allen.

EGYPTOLOGY.

  _Herodotus in Egypt_: F. Ll. Griffith.
  _Informal Instruction_: F. Ll. Griffith.

INDIAN.

SANSKRIT.

  _Sanskrit Grammar and Nala, Books I-VIII_: Professor A. A. Macdonell.
  _Vedāntā-sāra, with Introduction to Indian Philosophy_: Professor
        Macdonell.
  _Vedic Grammar treated historically_: Professor Macdonell.

HINDŪSTĀNĪ.

  _Grammar; Composition; Urdū Selections_: W. Hoey.

BENGĀLĪ.

  _Yates’ Grammar; Kathāmālā; Composition_: J. F. Blumhardt.

MARĀTHĪ AND GUJERĀTĪ.

  _Vāchan Mālā_: H. S. K. Bellairs.

TAMIL AND TELUGU.

  _Tamil: Handbook, Lessons 1-36_; _Telugu: Arden’s Grammar_,
  pp. 1-86: G. U. Pope.

ZEND PHILOLOGY.

  _The Religion of the Persian Emperors as expressed on their
        Inscriptions and their Biblical Edicts, compared with the
        Avesta_: Professor L. H. Mills.

PERSIAN.

  _Gulistān, Book I; Persian Grammar, Colloquial Persian_: G. S. A.
        Ranking.

CHINESE.

  _Elementary Chinese_: Professor T. L. Bullock.

BURMESE.

  _St. John’s Reader; Judson’s Grammar_: J. E. Bridges.


VI. Modern Languages.

  _Some common characteristics of Mediaeval Literatures_: A. J. Carlyle.

FRENCH.

  _Literature: J.-J. Rousseau_ (delivered in French): Lecturer, H. E.
        Berthon.
  _Practical Phonetics_: H. E. Berthon.
  _Advanced Composition_: H. E. Berthon.
  _Composition. Rousseau: Contrat Social. Literature, 1789-1850_ (Pass
        Course): H. E. Berthon.
  _French Literature: Seventeenth Century_: C. T. T. Kemshead.
  _De Tocqueville’s Ancien Régime_: C. T. T. Kemshead.
  _Hugo’s Hernani_: C. T. T. Kemshead.
  _Outlines of Historical French Grammar_: Lecturer, H. Oelsner.
  _Marie de France_: H. Oelsner.
  _Provençal_: H. Oelsner.
  _Old French Literature_: H. Oelsner.

GERMAN.

  _Schiller: Dramas_: F. L. Armitage.
  _German Literature: Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries_: F. L.
        Armitage.
  _Composition_: F. L. Armitage.
  _Literature, 1748-1805; Wallenstein; Composition_ (Pass Course): F.
        L. Armitage.
  _Elementary Course—Translation; Composition_: F. L. Armitage.
  _Special Courses for Indian Forest Students_: F. L. Armitage.
  _German for Indian Forest Students_: C. T. T. Kemshead.
  _History of German Literature: Thirteenth and Fourteenth Centuries_
        (delivered in German): Lecturer, H. G. Fiedler.
  _Middle High German Texts_: H. G. Fiedler.
  _Historical German Grammar_ (Part II): H. G. Fiedler.
  _Old High German Texts_: H. G. Fiedler.

ITALIAN.

  _Dante, Paradiso, Canto 32 onwards_: Lecturer, E. Moore.
  _Grammar, Translation, Composition and Prose Readings from Manzoni
        and Giusti_: Lecturer, C. F. Coscia.
  _Etymology, Composition. Readings from Dante, Petrarca, and
        Leopardi_: C. F. Coscia.
  _Historical Course. Macchiavelli, Da Porto, and Guicciardini_: C. F.
        Coscia.
  _Special Course. Literature of the Risorgimento_: C. F. Coscia.

SPANISH.

  _Elementary Grammar, Easy Readings, Conversation_: Lecturer, F. de
        Arteaga.
  _Advanced Grammar, Idioms, Composition_: F. de Arteaga.
  _El Poema del Cid, its Grammar, and the history of the period_: F.
        de Arteaga.
  _The Spanish Drama in the second half of the Nineteenth Century,
        with readings from the best authors_: F. de Arteaga.

SCANDINAVIAN.

  _Old Icelandic Grammar and Translation_: Lecturer, W. A. Craigie.

RUSSIAN AND THE OTHER SLAVONIC LANGUAGES.

  _Russian Language and Literature_: Professor W. R. Morfill.

FOREIGN HISTORY.

  _Political Movements in the Nineteenth Century_: H. A. L. Fisher.


VII. English Language and Literature.

  _Specimens of Middle English_ (Emerson’s Middle English Reader):
        Professor A. S. Napier.
  _Beowulf_: Professor A. S. Napier.
  _Sir Gawayne and the Green Knight_: Professor A. S. Napier.
  _Chaucer and his Age_: Professor W. A. Raleigh.
  _Elizabethan Poetry_: E. de Sélincourt.
  _Some common characteristics of Mediaeval Literatures_: A. J.
        Carlyle.
  _Criticism from the Sixteenth to the Eighteenth Centuries_: A. J.
        Carlyle.
  _Principles of Elocution_: H. Sweet.
  _Informal Instruction in Phonetics_: H. Sweet.


VIII. Mathematics.

  _Analytic Geometry of Plane Curves_: Professor W. Esson.
  _Synthetic Geometry of Plane Curves_: W. Esson.
  _Sequences and Series_: Professor E. B. Elliott.
  _Elementary Theory of Numbers_: E. B. Elliott.
  _Hydrodynamics_: Professor A. E. H. Love.
  _Problems in Applied Mathematics_: A. E. H. Love.
  _Elementary Mathematical Astronomy_: Professor H. H. Turner.
  _Practical Work_: H. C. Plummer.
  _Theory of Equations_: C. E. Haselfoot.
  _Projective Geometry_ (elementary): C. Leudesdorf.
  _Analytical Geometry_: A. E. Jolliffe.
  _Differential Calculus_: J. W. Russell.
  _Curve Tracing_: R. F. McNeile.
  _Problems in Pure Mathematics_: A. L. Pedder.
  _Higher Solid Geometry_: C. H. Sampson.
  _Differential Equations_: J. E. Campbell.
  _Integral Calculus_: C. H. Thompson.
  _Analytical Statics_: E. H. Hayes.
  _Hydrostatics_: A. L. Dixon.
  _Tridimensional Rigid Dynamics_: H. T. Gerrans.
  _Attractions and Electrostatics_: P. J. Kirkby.


IX. Natural Science.

PHYSICS.

  _Acoustics_: Professor R. B. Clifton.
  _Instruction in Practical Physics_: Professor Clifton, J. Walker, and
        W. N. Stocker.
  _Electricity and Magnetism_ (Lectures): Professor J. S. E. Townsend.
  _Electricity and Magnetism_ (Demonstrations): P. J. Kirkby.
  _Preliminary Physics_ (Lectures): R. T. Lattey.
  _Preliminary Physics_ (Demonstrations): E. S. Craig, H. E. Hurst, and
        R. T. Lattey.
  _Mechanics of Solids and Fluids_: R. E. Baynes.
  _Elementary Machine Design_: F. J. Jervis-Smith.

CHEMISTRY.

  _Chemical Revision, 1850-1860_: Professor W. Odling.
  _Organic Chemistry_ (Honours Course): J. Watts.
  _Subjects of the Preliminary Examination_: W. W. Fisher.
  _Stereo-chemistry_: J. E. Marsh.
  _Soils and Organic Chemistry (Forestry Course)_: B. Lambert.
  _Laboratory Instruction_: W. W. Fisher, J. Watts, J. E. Marsh, A. F.
        Walden, N. V. Sidgwick, and B. Lambert.
  _Laboratory Instruction (Physical Chemistry)_: D. H. Nagel and H. B.
        Hartley.
  (_Inorganic Chemistry_): H. B. Baker and L. G. Killby.
  (_Quantitative Analysis_): J. J. Manley.
  —— G. B. Cronshaw and A. F. Walden.
  _Inorganic Chemistry (Non-Metals)_: H. B. Baker.
  _Organic Chemistry (General Class-reactions)_: A. F. Walden.
  _Electro-chemistry_: T. S. Moore.

PHYSIOLOGY.

  _General Course of Physiology: Part I. The Chemical Processes of the
        Body_: Professor F. Gotch.
  _Advanced Course on Muscle_: Professor F. Gotch.
  _Advanced Course on Metabolism_: J. S. Haldane.
  _Advanced Course on Enzymes_: H. M. Vernon.
  _The Histology of the Connective Tissues and Muscle_: G. Mann.
  _Practical Histology_: G. Mann.
  _Physiological Chemistry_: W. Ramsden.
  _Advanced Experimental Work_: Professor Gotch and H. M. Vernon.
  _Advanced Chemical Work_: W. Ramsden.
  _Advanced Histological Work_: G. Mann.
  _Physiology_: F. A. Dixey.
  _General Physiology_: E. W. A. Walker.

ZOOLOGY.

  _General Morphology of Mollusca_: Professor G. C. Bourne, E. S.
        Goodrich.
  _Embryology_: J. W. Jenkinson.
  _Coelentera_: R. W. T. Günther.
  _Elements of Entomology_: G. H. Grosvenor.
  _Morphology of the Ichthyopsida_: J. Barclay.
  _Some points in the Comparative Anatomy of the Teeth_: J. Barclay.

BOTANY.

  _Advanced Course (Physiology) with Practical Instruction_: Professor
        S. H. Vines.
  _Short Elementary Revision Course, with Practical Instruction_:
        Professor S. H. Vines.
  _Forest Botany_: Professor W. Somerville.

GEOLOGY.

  _General Course_: Professor W. J. Sollas.
  _Volcanoes and Earthquakes_: Professor W. J. Sollas.
  _The Structure of Asia_: M. Allorge.
  _Characteristic Fossils_: J. A. Douglas.
  _Practical Instruction in the Laboratory_: Professor Sollas and M.
        Allorge.

ASTRONOMY.

  _Elementary Mathematical Astronomy_: Professor H. H. Turner.
  _Practical Work_: H. C. Plummer.

MINERALOGY.

  _Crystallization_: Professor H. A. Miers.
  _The Principles of Crystal Symmetry_: H. L. Bowman.
  _Some Applications of Physical Chemistry to Mineralogy and Geology_:
        T. V. Barker.
  _Practical Instruction in Crystallography and Mineralogy_: Professor
        Miers, H. L. Bowman, and T. V. Barker.

ANTHROPOLOGY.

  _Early Stages of Art and Knowledge_: Professor E. B. Tylor.

GEOGRAPHY.

  _America_: A. J. Herbertson.
  _The British Isles_: A. J. Herbertson.
  _Land Forms_: A. J. Herbertson.
  _Geographical Methods_: A. J. Herbertson.
  _Practical Work, Seminar, and Excursions_: A. J. Herbertson.
  _Surveying_: N. F. Mackenzie.
  _Geographical Distribution of Man_: J. L. Myres.

MEDICINE.

  _Clinical Medicine_: Professor W. Osler.
  _Physical Diagnosis_: Professor Osler, with E. Mallam and A. G.
        Gibson.
  _Oxford Medicine in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries_:
        Professor Osler, with E. Mallam and A. G. Gibson.

PATHOLOGY.

  _Inflammation, Cellular Degenerations, New Growths_: Professor J.
        Ritchie.
  _Pathological Histology_: Professor J. Ritchie.

CLINICAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY.

  _Clinical Medicine_: W. T. Brooks.
  _Fractures and Dislocations_: A. P. Parker.

HUMAN ANATOMY.

  _Lectures: Vascular and Respiratory Systems_: Professor A. Thomson.
  _Demonstrations_ (Subjects to be arranged): Professor A. Thomson and
        A. P. Parker.
  _Tutorial Class_: A. P. Parker.
  _Practical Class_: Professor A. Thomson and Demonstrators.

HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY.

  _General Course of Physiology: Part I. The Chemical Processes of the
        Body_: Professor F. Gotch.
  _Practical Histology_: G. Mann.
  _Introduction to Physiological Chemistry_: W. Ramsden.
  _Physiological Chemistry_: W. Ramsden.
  _Revision Courses for the First B.M. Examination—Histology,
        Experimental and Clinical Work_: G. Mann and W. Ramsden.
  _Physiology_: F. A. Dixey.

ORGANIC CHEMISTRY.

  _Organic Chemistry in relation to Medicine, with Laboratory
        Instruction_: J. E. Marsh.

OPHTHALMOLOGY.

  _The Human Eye (Lectures)_: R. W. Doyne.
  _Clinical Instruction_: R. W. Doyne.




APPENDIX VI

AFFILIATED AND PRIVILEGED UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES


Colonial.

  Cape of Good Hope, Nov. 27, 1888, and Nov. 21, 1905.
  Sydney, Nov. 27, 1888, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  Calcutta, May 21, 1889, and June 22, 1903.
  Punjab, Oct. 29, 1889, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  Bombay, Nov. 4, 1890, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  Adelaide, Feb. 3, 1891, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  Madras, June 19, 1894.
  Melbourne, Oct. 30, 1894, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  New Zealand, Nov. 13, 1894, Oct. 28, 1902, and Nov. 1, 1904.
  Allahabad, Nov. 20, 1894, and June 21, 1906.
  Toronto, Nov. 26, 1895, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  McGill (Montreal), May 2, 1899, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  Tasmania, June 13, 1899, and Feb. 24, 1903.
  New Brunswick, Jan. 22, 1901, and Oct. 22, 1903.
  Malta, Feb. 3, 1903.
  King’s College (Windsor, Nova Scotia), Oct. 22, 1903.
  Dalhousie (Halifax, Nova Scotia), Oct. 22, 1903.
  Mt. Allison College (Sackville, New Brunswick), Mar. 15, 1904.
  Acadia University (Wolfville, Nova Scotia), Nov. 1, 1904.
  University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Feb. 14, 1905.
  University of Queen’s College (Kingston, Ontario), March 15, 1905,
        and June 21, 1906.
  Laval University, Quebec, Nov. 21, 1905.
  McMaster University, Toronto, Nov. 21, 1905.
  University of St. Joseph’s College, New Brunswick, May 17, 1906.


United States of America.

  Harvard University, Nov. 1, 1904.
  University of Wisconsin, May 16, 1905.
  Princeton University, Oct. 24, 1905.
  University of Michigan, May 22, 1906.




APPENDIX VII

A SELECT LIST OF BOOKS FOR REFERENCE


Official or Quasi-official.

(From the Clarendon Press, Oxford.[89])

  _Oxford University Calendar, 1907_ (published annually). Crown 8vo,
        cloth, 5_s._

  _The Student’s Handbook to the University and Colleges at Oxford._
        Seventeenth edition. 1906. Crown 8vo, 2_s._ 6_d._ net; by post,
        2_s._ 9_d._ net. Includes the following as a supplement. (This
        is the nearest equivalent to the ‘Catalogue’ of an American
        University.)

  _Programme of Special Studies, for the Academical Year 1906-7,
        together with some account of opportunities for Special Work
        or Research existing in Oxford University._ Crown 8vo, paper
        covers, 6_d._ net. (Chapter VI and Appendix of ‘Oxford and the
        Rhodes Scholarships’ is largely based on information contained
        in this Book.)

  _The Examination Statutes, with the Regulations of the Board of
        Studies and of Faculties for 1906-7._ 8vo, 1_s._ net. (This
        Book contains the regulations and requirements connected with
        Courses of Study, University Examinations and Degrees, Dates,
        Fees, Subjects for University Prizes, &c., for the current
        year.) (Published annually.)

  _Guide for Colonial, Indian, and Foreign Students._ 2_d._ net.

  _Statuta Universitatis Oxoniensis, 1906._ 8vo, cloth, 5_s._

  _Oxford University Gazette_, containing official notices,
        lecture-lists, &c., published weekly during Term and when
        necessary in Vacation. (7_s._ 6_d._ per annum; 3_d._ per copy.)


Unofficial.

  _Oxford—its Life and Schools._ Ed. by A. M. M. Stedman, M.A., Wadham
        Coll., Oxford. George Bell & Sons, London, 1887.

  _Oxford and Oxford Life._ By J. Wells, M.A., Wadham Coll., Oxford.
        3rd ed., 1906. (Based on the above; brought down to date; a
        critical sketch of various phases of Oxford life.)

  _Oxford and its Colleges._ By the same author. 7th ed., 1906. (Giving
        a short history and items of interest concerning each College;
        with small map of Oxford.)

These two books published by Methuen & Co., London.

  _Oxford: Historical and Picturesque Notes._ By Andrew Lang. Seeley &
        Co., Ltd., London.

  _Oxford—as it is._ By Louis Dyer, M.A., Oxford. Macmillan & Co. (A
        brief analysis of the Oxford System.)

  _An American at Oxford._ By John Corbin. A. P. Watt & Son, London,
        1902. (A sketch of undergraduate life at Oxford—from the
        American point of view—especially comparing the Oxford and the
        Harvard Systems. In popular style.)

  _The Last Will and Testament of Cecil John Rhodes._ By W. T. Stead.
        _Review of Reviews_ Office, London, 1902. (An appreciation
        of Cecil Rhodes, with an historical sketch of his Will with
        especial reference to the Rhodes Scholarships. Also Chapters
        describing Rhodes’s Political and Religious Ideas.)




FOOTNOTES


[1] How thoroughly Rhodes and Mr. Stead’s ideas harmonized at that time
can best be seen from a comparison of Mr. Stead’s manifesto to ‘all
English-speaking Folk’, which was published in the first number of the
_Review of Reviews_ (Eng.), which appeared not long after, Jan. 15,
1891, with a letter, one of his few long letters, which Rhodes wrote to
Mr. Stead in August of that year (dated Aug. 19-Sept. 3). See _Review
of Reviews_ (Eng.), Jan. 15, 1891, and W. T. Stead’s _Last Will and
Testament of C. J. R._, pp. 99-102, 64-76.

[2] See W. T. Stead’s _Last Will and Testament of C. J. R._, p. 114.

[3] See Chap. ii.

[4] See Chap. ii, p. 18 f.

[5] As a result chiefly of political differences between Mr. Stead on the
one side, and Rhodes and the other Trustees on the other; not as a result
of ill-feeling.

[6] See W. T. Stead’s _Last Will and Testament of C. J. R._, p. 190.

[7] Ibid., p. 184.

[8] The Will was published in London _Times_, April 7, 1902. Much of the
text is printed in _The Last Will and Testament of Cecil J. Rhodes_, ed.
by W. T. Stead, published by _Review of Reviews_ Office, London, 1902.

The University of Missouri also reprinted the portion of the Will dealing
with the Scholarships, in a Bulletin; but see p. 26, note 3.

[9] The addresses are given in the Will.

[10] Loss from tearing down buildings.

[11] High Table, the table in the College Hall, at which ‘senior
members’, that is, the ‘dons’ and graduates of a College Body, dine.

[12] These have been rearranged and increased to the number of 93. See p.
29.

[13] The original clause gave 4/10, 2/10, 2/10, 2/10, for i, ii, iii, iv,
respectively, with a maximum number of 100, to be divided into 40, 20,
20, 20.

[14] Cf. _L. W. & T._, Stead, p. 38, note _t_.

[15] § 24 appears in these same words in the original.

[16] § 25. The meaning is practically the same as in the original; the
wording slightly changed.

[17] This rule was not at first applied in certain Colonies—South Africa,
West Australia, and Queensland; but henceforth all candidates who are not
exempted by the University Statutes will be obliged to pass Responsions
or an equivalent.

[18] Paper read before the Royal Colonial Institute, Dec., 1904.
_Journal_, No. 1, 1904-5.

[19] Cf. also Ch. iv.

[20] Ch. xxxiv, _Report of the Commissioners of Education_ for 1902,
Wash. Govt. Printing Office, 1903.

[21] For further discussion see Dr. Parkin, _Col. Inst. Rep._; pp. 20-3;
W. T. Harris (pp. 957-8), _Report of the Commissioners of Education_,
1902.

[22] For result of discussions regarding age limits, domicile, and
general requirements, see Ch. iv.

[23] The first attempt in the United States to publish definite
information on the subject for the benefit of possible candidates was
made by the University of Mississippi, which published a ‘Bulletin’ in
October, 1903, giving the clauses of the Will and instructions which had
been issued up to that date with regard to the Scholarships.

[24] See also Ch. iv.

[25] See Ch. iv, pp. 42, 43; Ch. viii, pp. 109, 110.

[26] See Ch. vi, Pt. 2, on the Oxford System.

[27] The Scholars appointed in 1903 finished their course in 1906.

[28] A Scholar is an undergraduate who, as the result of examination, is
entitled to a grant of so much (generally £80) per annum by the College.
This amount is subtracted from his ‘battels’, not paid directly to him.
Scholarships are given for two years, renewable for a further two years,
without further examination. A Commoner is one who is not entitled to
such a grant from a College.

[29] The arrangements for appointments in the Colonies, other than South
Africa, and in the United States had not yet been completed.

[30] Quebec sent two (instead of one) by special leave.

[31] The appointments in the United States are made but two years in each
three, there being none the third year. The appointments will be made in
1907, 1908, 1910, 1911, &c.

[32] See Appendix, p. 128 ff.

[33] See Chap. vi, on ‘Oxford System’. Also Appendix, with list of
Affiliated Institutions, p. 168.

[34] For a copy of the examination papers set in 1907, see Appendix, p.
136 ff.

[35] Sets of Responsion Papers for past years may be obtained from the
Clarendon Press, Oxford, or from Oxford University Press, 91 Fifth
Avenue, New York. Price one shilling: twenty-five cents.

[36] See p. 140.

[37] A scholar’s absence from Tasmania in any other state of the
Commonwealth or in New Zealand for educational purposes during any part
of the first three of the said five years shall not prejudice his right
to a Scholarship on the ground of non-residence. Attendance at School,
College, or University in Tasmania during school years or University
terms shall be deemed residence.

[38] See p. 168.

[39] (For a clear understanding of the provisions in South Africa one
should refer to the Memorandum issued by the Trust, as the arrangements
differ in several points from those for the other Colonies. However, in
addition to what follows here, see p. 132.)

[40] For a list of the Committees of Selection, see Appendix, p. 28.

[41] From the Will. See Chap. ii, p. 18.

[42] See p. 64.

[43] See Chart, p. 60.

[44] ‘College revenues from lands have decreased alarmingly in recent
years.’—Wells, _Oxford and Oxford Life_.

[45] _Handbook_, p. ix.

[46] See Chap. vii.

[47] This statement is of course subject to exceptions, but as a general
statement it expresses the spirit and the attitude with which Oxford men
regard their everyday athletics.

[48] Not all in residence.

[49] The Vice-Chancellor.

[50] _The Ancient House of Congregation_ still survives. Its functions
and powers are connected only with the conferring of degrees and the
approval of examiners.

[51] Thus the confusion arising as to the number of Terms per year. For
purposes of ‘battels’, &c., there are _three_ Terms, of eight weeks each;
for purposes of ‘standing’, residence, &c., there are _four_ Terms,
totalling twenty-eight weeks.

[52] The degrees of _Bachelor in Medicine_ and _B.D._ are open only to
those who have taken the Oxford degree of B.A., and are therefore out of
the question for Rhodes Scholars who intend to reside only three years.
The degrees of Bachelor and Doctor of Music can be obtained without
residence. Cf. _Handbook_, Ch. x.

[53] See list of such Universities and Colleges in the Appendix, p. 168.

[54] See p. 79.

[55] See p. 80.

[56] Whenever possible, it is desirable that the necessary steps should
be taken before the student leaves America or the Colonies (even as early
as May).

[57] Some idea of the character and scope of the Honour Lectures, as well
as of the teaching force engaged in the various fields, may be gained
from a glance at the Appendices IV and V.

[58] See Chap. vii of the _Handbook_.

[59] Senior standing (see p. 67) excuses from Responsions (and Additional
Subject) and the Intermediate Examination; Junior standing exempts only
from Responsions (and the Additional Subject).

[60] ‘Science’ includes Mathematics, Natural Science, and Mental and
Moral Science.

[61] Cf. _Handbook_, p. 226.

[62] See Appendix, p. 143.

[63] All official correspondence relative to the degrees of B.C.L.,
B.Litt., B.Sc., should be addressed to the Secretary to the Boards of
Faculties, Clarendon Building, Oxford.

[64] _Oxford and Oxford Life_, Chap. iii.

[65] ‘Another Bursar estimates £150.’

[66] See p. 95.

[67] For further information see _Handbook_, Chap. iii.

[68] See _Amalgamated Clubs_, p. 100.

[69] These figures may seem a low estimate, but considerable inquiry
points to a fair average as lying within these limits.

[70] No one College uses all these designations—but these funds, or
services, or their equivalents, are provided for in each College’s
battels.

[71] This entrance fee is paid once only, i. e. the first time a man rows
in an inter-College race.

[72] The initial expenses of the first year and the additional expenses
connected with graduation, &c., at the end of the third year makes this,
if anything, _too conservative_ an estimate of the average for each of
these years.

[73] Not required of students having Senior Foreign standing.

[74] Keble has a special arrangement by which, after entrance fee of £5,
£85 paid in three instalments may be made to cover nearly all of the
actual necessities of in-college expenses per year. (See _Handbook_, p.
73.)

[75] Queen’s has a special arrangement by which, after payment of
entrance fee and deposit of £10 caution-money, a payment of £28 per Term
may be made to cover nearly all of the actual necessities of in-College
expense per Term. (See _Handbook_, p. 77.)

[76] St. Edmund Hall has a prepayment system by which, without admission
fee or caution money, £73 paid in three instalments may be made to cover
‘all charges of the Hall except degree fees.’ (See _Handbook_, p. 82.)

[77] For Non-Collegiate arrangements see _Handbook_, pp. 83-84:—

‘A reference to the figures which have been given will show that the
course of three years for a B.A. degree need not exceed the charges
specified in the following list’:—

(That is, for Non-Collegiate students.)

                                       £  _s._ _d._
    Entrance fees                      8   10   0
    Three years at £51 10_s._ 6_d._  154   11   6
    University Fee for Degree B.A.     7   10   0
                                    -------------
                                     170   11   6
          Less caution money           2    0   0
                                    -------------
                                    £168   11   6

[78] It should be remembered, too, that although ‘migration’ is possible
the exercise of this right of transfer among undergraduates is very rare,
and is almost as serious a step in Oxford as resignation and transfer of
Fraternity membership would be in an American University.

[79] It is impossible and would be impracticable to attempt here to
describe, or to discriminate between, the Colleges. For description see
Wells, _Oxford and its Colleges_; Baedeker, _Great Britain_, Oxford;
_Handbook_. For other relative information see pp. 169, 170.

[80] See list of Affiliated and Privileged Universities in the Appendix,
p. 168.

[81] The decision, of course, in all cases except those determined by
Statute, lies with the Committee before which cases are presented in
Oxford. Students who expect to apply for advanced standing should be
ready to present catalogues of their Universities, a detailed statement
of the work they have done, certificates of degrees, honours, &c. The
value of Senior standing is that it exempts from ‘Moderations’, of
both Senior and Junior standing that they allow one to take his Final
Examinations four Terms earlier than otherwise. Unless some of these
advantages are desired there is no practical use in obtaining advanced
standing.

[82] This is not an official limitation, nor does it exhaust the
possibilities.

[83] See Appendix, p. 148 ff.

[84] Degree or Diploma already obtained.

[85] Deceased.

[86] Gone down.

[87] Note.—(Issued as a Bulletin for general information.)

[88] An official list of lectures is published at the beginning of each
Term in the _University Gazette_ (see p. 169).

[89] American Branch Office: New York: 91 & 93 Fifth Avenue. Colonial
Branch Office: Toronto: Richmond Street.




INDEX


  Additional Subject, 79.

  Affiliated Colleges and Universities:
    List of, 168.
    Privileges of, 69.
    _See also_ Standing.

  Athletics, 54, 55, 57, 100, 107.


  Battels, 98, 102.


  Caution Money, 97.

  Class Lists, 71, 75.

  Clubs, Amalgamated, 100.
    Social, &c., 48, 54, 57.

  College, the, 51, 52, 64.
    Choice of, 109, 110.
      Books concerning, 111 footnote 1.
    Charges, Table of, 105 (_see_ Expenses).
    Collegiate System, 69, 70.
    List, 60.

  Committees of Selection, 24.
    List of, 128.

  Congregation, 63.

  Convocation, 63.

  Courses of Study, 111 f.
    Character of, 70.
    Elective, 76.
    Final Honour, 80-6.
    Pass and Honour, 71-6.


  Degrees, 66, 67, 113 ff.
    Research, 67, 86-93; B.C.L., 93 f.
      Official Correspondence relative to, 94 footnote 1.

  Diplomas, 93, 113.


  Establishment Charges, 99, 100.

  Examinations, 75-86; Fees, 103; B.C.L., 94.
    Honour, 113.
    Rhodes Scholarship, 32 ff., 136 ff.
    Statutes, 75.

  Expenses, Chap. vii;
    Fees, 97, 103, 105.


  Graduate Study, 70, 86.
    Opportunity for Research, 89-93.
    Research Degrees, 67, 86-93, 94 footnote 1.


  Hebdomadal Council, 63.


  Lectures, 69 f., 71 ff.
    List of Honour Lectures, 151.

  Libraries, 90-3.


  Non-Collegiate Delegacy, 65, 104.


  Oxford as it is, Chap. v.
    Colleges, 51, 52, 54, 60, 69, 70, 109, 110, 111.
    Students, 46 ff., 51, 59.
    System, Chap. vi.


  Parkin, Dr. G. R., v, 21 ff., 26, 27, 28.


  Residence:
    Required for Degrees, 65-7.
    Residential System, 65.

  Responsions, 22, 69, 76.

  Rhodes, C. J., Chaps. i, ii. _See_ Will.

  Rhodes Scholars, 27, 28.
    Appointment, Ch. iv.
    Appointments, 1903-6, 26 ff.
    Eligibility, 30.
    Instructions to, 40 ff.
    List of, 118.
    Number appointed, in residence, &c., 29.
    Selection of, 40-2.
    Status, 28.

  Rhodes Scholarships:
    Age limits, 24.
    American, 13 f., 23, 25, 39.
    Colonial, 13, 24, 26, 34-9.
    Examination for, 26, 27, 32 ff., 136 ff.
    German, 17, 24, 26.
    Organization of the System, Chap. iii.
    Payment of, 14, 43.
    Qualifications for, 18 ff., 34-9, 106 f.
    Selection, 40 ff.

  Rhodes Trust:
    Agents, 21, 22.
    Trustees, 5, 6, 10, 16, 18, 20, Chap. ii.


  Standing, 67, 68, 69, 111, 113.

  Stead, W. T., iv, 4, 5.


  Terms, University, 65, 66.

  Tutorial System, 72-5, 98, 112.


  Vacations, 73, 74, 76.


  Will, Rhodes’s, 1, 3 ff., 5, 6 ff., Chap. ii, 21, 23.

  Wylie, F. J., v, 22, 26, 27, 28, 41, 42, 43.


              Oxford: HORACE HART, Printer to the University



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 70621 ***
